HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  1 | 69 
 
W17:230  Magic and Tech Demo  
Wednesday 5:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-22 
GM: Kevin Fischer  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ultramodern Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Magic and Tech 
Description: A militant group has risen in the countryside of Narata. A 
Mechanized Cavalry Platoon has been dispatched to deal with them 
before they cause great harm and damage in the grasslands. Your 
feedback will be greatly appreciated. Two-player quick-starts will be 
available for those that want one. 
 
W17:623  The Last Battle 1814 - Courtrai  
Wednesday, 6:00:00 PM, 6 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-72 
GM: Stephen Umbrell & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 18mm, Rules: Carnage & Glory 2 
Description: While the main Allied Armies are assaulting Paris, Saxon 
General Thielmann leads a motley force of Germans into Belgium where 
he is met by French General Maison with mix of conscripts and Young 
Guard. They meet in the farmlands just outside of the fortress of 
Courtrai.  
 
W18:307  Dreadnaughts at War  
Wednesday 6:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-12 
GM: Kim Young  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Copy of game rules 
Period: World War I, Scale: 1:6000th, Rules: Fighting Battleships 
Description: German Admiral Scheer shows his High Seas Fleet off the 
coast of Norway in hopes of catching a portion of the British Grand Fleet 
and defeating it. This is a multi-squadron level game involving over 30 
battleships and battle crusiers. Players will each command a squadron of 
3 to 5 Dreadnoughts. Ships will move and fight in squadron formation in 
this game with focus on guns, armor and speed and not minutia and 
endless detail. If you where a fan of the old Avalon Hill game Jutland and 
large fleet actions, then you will enjoy this.  
 
W18:680  A&A D-DAY CAMPAIGN: CLASSIC-SCENARIO A — Theme 
Game 
Wednesday 6:00:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Heritage: FA-1 
GM: Peter Panzeri  
Sponsor: MINIATURE BUILDING AUTHORITY (MBA), Prize: Free RULES 
available from MBA to all players @Game-End! 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Modified Axis-&-Allies D-Day - 
WW2 CORPS-LEVEL expanded onto 8-foot Color Terrain Blanket 
Description: Your BIG CHANCE to change the fate of D-Day in a small 
game of the strategic battle using the Modified Axis-&-Allies D-Day game 
with 20mm tanks & figures and played on a 6-foot Color Normandy 
Terrain-map (Blanket).  Maneuver brigades and divisions of Infantry, 
Armor, Artillery and Air Support. Random events, music and mayhem. 
What's not to love? A war Game, A strategy game, a Survival game. 
Presented by members of the DUKE SEIFRIED FOUNDATION 
 
W19:184  Hail, Emperor, those who are about to die salute you — 
Theme Game 
Wednesday  7:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-24 
GM: Jim McWee  
Sponsor: Miniature Building Authority, Prize: Gift Certificates 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Sons of Mars (modified) 
Description: Start the convention hearing the roar of the crowd as 
gladiators entertain the masses while seeking glory, fame and riches! 
Pick your gladiator from the stable and join a double elimination 
tournament. Ave, Imperator: Morituri te salutant! Rules will be taught. 
Must be 16 or older to play. 
 
W19:143  Chippewa & Lundy's Lane July 1814  
Wednesday 7:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-44 
GM: Robert Durst  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: War of 1812, Scale: 12mm, Rules: Command and Colors 
Description: The U.S. Army of the North is determined to wrest control 
of the Niagara River valley from the British. Winfield Scott's brigade 
spearheads the advance into Canada. Scott runs head-on into a small 
force attempting to delay the Americans long enough for the Canadian 
regulars and militia to set up a defensive line further north at Lundy's 
Lane. Both battles will be fought. Units that survive Chippewa will 
reappear at Lundy's Lane alongside other units of the opposing armies. 
 
W19:564  The Battle of Isandlwana — Theme Game 
Wednesday 7:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 9, Location: Commonwealth 
Foyer: CF-1 
GM: Dave Waxtel & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Men Who Would Be Kings 
Description: The Battle of Isandlwana on January 22, 1879 was the first 
major encounter in the war between the British Empire and the Zulu 
Nation. Eleven days after the British invaded Zululand, a Zulu force of 
some 20,000 warriors attacked a portion of the British main column 
consisting of 1,800 British, colonial, and native troops. Children 
participation encouraged! 
 
W19:674  The Battle of Edington, May 878 AD — Theme Game 
Wednesday 7:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth 
Foyer: CF-2 
GM: John Spiess & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Dark Ages, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Halberd Mace and Great Sword - 
Dark Age Version 
Description: The Last Kingdom,  Alfred the Great Strikes back! Viking 
invaders have overrun most of England. Only Wessex, the "Last 
Kingdom", stands in the way of complete disaster. In May 878 AD, Alfred 
the Great rallied the peasants of his shires and faced down the Vikings at 
the Battle of Edington. The fate of England would be decided on this 
field. 
 
W19:154  Tewkesbury, 1471  
Wednesday 7:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-21 
GM: Peter Anderson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Renaissance, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Resolve - Wars of the 
Roses 
Description: Queen Margaret and the Lancastrian army stole a march on 
the Yorkists. King Edward IV and his men have caught up with them at 
Tewkesbury, and have sought battle to prevent them from crossing the 
river Severn into Wales. Youth age 10 and up welcome with a playing 
adult, 13+ fine on their own 
 
 
W20:496  Wars of Oz - Australians in Afghanistan 2011  
Wednesday 8:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-11 
GM: Martyn Kelly & WAMP 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  2 | 69 
 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Force on Force 
Description: A four-man "Australian SAS team"  was inserted by 
helicopter overnight to recon a small village where high value Taliban 
leaders are meeting.  Unfortunately, a local goat herder wandered close 
to their position, and they were compromised.  What started out as a 
routine recon mission has developed into a firefight in which they are 
outgunned.   A regular Aussie infantry unit in Bushmaster vehicles has 
been sent to extract the SAS team. This game is ideal for players who are 
new to the rules.   Hold onto your didgeridoos and boomerangs, this 
game is going to be a fast way to start your convention.  No food or 
drink at the table. 
 
W20:552  Into The Darkness: WORLD of TANKS-The Miniatures Game 
DEMO'S  
Wednesday 5:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-
8 
GM: James Nicholson & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and 
Gaming Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: WORLD of TANKS-The 
Miniatures Game and House rules. 
Description: Enemy Spotted!! Feind Entdeckt!! Vrag Zamechen!! The 
World of Tanks: Miniatures Game is an easy to learn, quick play, small 
scale tabletop game. You take command of a Tank Platoon, seeking to 
destroy your opponents tanks and secure victory.  
 
W20:553  Into The Darkness: WORLD of TANKS-The Miniatures Game 
DEMO'S  
Wednesday 8:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-
8 
GM: James Nicholson & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and 
Gaming Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: WORLD of TANKS-The 
Miniatures Game and House rules. 
Description: Enemy Spotted!! Feind Entdeckt!! Vrag Zamechen!! The 
World of Tanks: Miniatures Game is an easy to learn, quick play, small 
scale tabletop game. You take command of a Tank Platoon, seeking to 
destroy your opponents tanks and secure victory.  
 
W20:689  CROOK-&-CRAZY HORSE at ROSEBUD 1876 — Theme Game 
Wednesday 8:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 18, Location: Freedom A: FA-2 
GM: Peter Panzeri  
Sponsor: BRIGADE GAMES PLAINS WARS FIGURE LINE, Prize: FREE COPY 
of GAME RULES & SCENARIO made available to ALL Participants after 
completion of the game -- PLUS Trophy for "Most-Feared-Enemy" & 
other prizes from our sponsors. 
Period: PLAINS WARS - WILD WEST, Scale: 25mm, Rules: CRAZY HORSE 
RULES! by Pete Panzeri -- Available to all players FREE @Game-End. 
Description: IF you think CUSTER faced a mess? Face this PRELUDE TO 
DISASTER a week before him; In this exciting re-fight of "the most 
amazing spoiling-attack of American military history." Crazy Horse's 
morning surprise attack on Crook's column nearly won the Great Sioux 
War within-in 30 minutes. And it proved to be "The height of Native 
American power during the 19th century" and is what "MADE LITTLE-
BIGHORN POSSIBLE" ... A bloody fast-paced game of Random-events, 
hats, Cheers, music and mayhem. What's not to love?  A WAR-Game, A 
SURVIVAL-Game. And a LESSON for all! HOSTED BY DUKE SEIFRIED 
FOUNDATION. A ONE-TIME-ONLY GAME at HISTORICON'24  *DON'T 
MISS IT!  **ALSO DON'T MISS War College Presentation: "CRUCIAL KEYS 
to LITTLE BIGHORN & ROSEBUD" 5PM FRI at MONTGOMERY HOUSE. 
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  3 | 69 
 
T09:417  Magic and Tech Demo  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-85 
GM: Kevin Fischer & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ultramodern Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Magic and Tech 
Description: A militant group has risen in the countryside of Narata. A 
Mechanized Cavalry Platoon has been dispatched to deal with them 
before they cause great harm and damage in the grasslands. Your 
feedback will be greatly appreciated. Two-player quick-starts will be 
available for those that want one. 
 
T09:437  Battle of the Great Plains, 203 BC  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-83 
GM: Kurt Schlegel & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 10mm, Rules: To The Strongest 
Description: After the debacle at Utica, the Carthaginians have reformed 
their army to face Scipio in an area known as the Great Plains. 
Frustrated by the lack of progress with the siege of Utica, Scipio marches 
directly on the Carthaginians, confident in the superiority of his veteran 
Romans and new ally Masinissa. Refight this decisive battle, which led to 
the recall of Hannibal from Italy and the end of the Carthaginian Empire.  
 
T09:447  The Russo Japanese War: A LWTV Campaign Game 1 — 
Theme Game 
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: : HR-37 
GM: Miles Reidy & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Russo-Japanese War, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Altar of Empires 
Description: Often described as World War Zero, the Russo Japanese 
War was a titanic struggle between a declining European power and an 
emerging Asian one which featured a terrifying glimpse of what WW1 
had instore.  Players will be resolve battles that occur over the course of 
a campaign being played out over the convention. The outcome of the 
table top fighting directly influences the progress of the campaign.  
 
T09:458  Ragnars Raid — Theme Game 
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : HR-47 
GM: Brad Schaive & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Dark Ages, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Battlelust 
Description: Raiders from the North sweep into a Saxon village looking 
for gold and silver under the guise of a very harsh form of wealth 
redistribution. The game will be played on a custom table fit only for the 
finest of Jarls.  Play will be fast paced and rewards will be in the form of 
miniature gold, silver and captives for ransom or a place at the table in 
Valhalla.  
 
T09:469  Pea Soup, Normandy, France, 7 August 1944 Theme 
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : HR-57 
GM: Alex Newhart & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Fireball Forward 
Description: The 1/117, 30th ID had moved into positions around the 
village of St. Barthlemy bringing with them the towed 3-inch anti-tank 
guns of the B/823rd Tank Destroyer Battalion. As daylight began to 
arrive there was a heavy fog that clung low to the ground and cut 
visibility to less than 30 yards. At 0600 hours the sound of German tanks 
could be heard coming down the road from the east.  Hitler’s next 
attempt to stop the Allied invasion had begun.  Can the Americans stop 
the Germans push to close off the breakout from Normandy?  
 
T09:486  The Battle of Midway, 1942 — Theme Game 
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : HR-46 
GM: Carl cardozo & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Fire in the Sky 
Description: Trouble is, I want that fourth carrier! Take command of the 
fearsome Kido Butai or the valiant US Navy in the struggle for the 
Pacific! The IJN has its sights set on capturing a target called AF - 
and thanks to the codebreakers in Hawaii, they wont take Midway 
without a fight! Each player commands a carriers complement of 
fighters and bombers. Play the strategic game using 
Avalon Hills classic Midway game, and the airstrikes using the new 
wargame rules Fire in the 
Sky! 
 
T09:495  Wars of Oz - Danger Close, Battle of Long Tan, 1966 — Theme 
Game 
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-11 
GM: Patrick Devine & WAMP 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Vietnam, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Flames of War Modified 
Description: Australian troops featured in the movie Danger Close. 
Historically the Battle of Long Tan in 1966. A company of Aussies go out 
on a routine patrol. They are besieged by a NVA regiment. Typical 
defensive action against overwhelming odds  
 
T09:509  A Feast for Ravens — Theme Game 
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-14 
GM: Michael Hopper & DelVal 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Dark Ages, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Ravenfeast 
Description: Ivar Forktongue learned that Svein Bloodsson left one of his 
longships behind in the village of Leifsheim, and has gone raiding across 
the sea. Ivar and his warriors set out by land to steal the longship and 
pillage Svein's village.  
 
T09:535  JOE HACK Britian 43 AD British Bash  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage: HR-55 
GM: Joe Swartz & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: JOE HACK 
Description: In 43 AD Claudius Ceasar invades Britian with an army that 
includes elephants. With battle hardened infantry that is every bit as 
tough as the British, the ancient worlds best light cavalry, and elephants,  
the African wing of the army advances through the countryside, the 
British, who have patiently waited for the  african column to advance 
down the path, charge forth from the woods, not to welcome the 
immigrants, but to show them their steel in a British vs African 
Tuetoberg Wald rules taught & minors welcome with adult 
 
T09:541  Check Your Six!  France 1940  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-43 
GM: Paul Meyer & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/144th, Rules: Check Your Six! (Some House 
Rules) 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  4 | 69 
 
Description: Pilots of the Armée de l'Air make a desperate attempt to 
stop a powerful Luftwaffe attack against a vital bridge. House rules 
provide the slightly higher level of detail appropriate for scenarios with 
smaller numbers of larger-scale aircraft .  Rules will be taught.  Not well-
suited for very young players 
 
T09:615  Early Imperial Roman vs Germanic Tribes - 12 BC  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-16 
GM: Erik Pulkka & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Infamy, Infamy! 
Description: Tensions between the Germanic tribes and the Romans 
began as early as 17/16 BC with the Clades Lolliana, where the 5th 
Legion under Marcus Lollius was defeated by the tribes Sicambri, 
Usipetes, and Tencteri. Roman Emperor Augustus responded by rapidly 
developing military infrastructure across Gaul. His general, Nero 
Claudius Drusus, began building forts along the Rhine in 13 BC and 
launched a retaliatory campaign across the Rhine in 12 BC. 
It is now 12 BC and time for the Romans to strike back.  Join us for a 
foray into the dangerous lands of the Germanic tribes to gain Glory or 
Infamy.  
 Infamy, Infamy! are Wargame rules for large skirmishes in the Ancient 
World. 
 
T09:617  The Cinderella Army Operation WellHit  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-28 
GM: Thomas Sero & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Chain of Command 
Description: Three months after D-Day with the German army on the 
run, the 1st Canadian Army is tasked with defeating Hitler's "Atlantic 
Wall" . On the 17th of September 1st Canadian Army begins Operation 
â€œWellHitâ€  with 2 infantry brigades plus supporting armour, 
artillery, and aircraft to liberate the port of Boulogne Sur-Mer. They are 
facing 10,000 well dug in German troops. It will take five days of heavy 
fighting to finally declare victory for the Allies. No experience necessary, 
4 Platoon commanders needed. 
 
T09:624  The Last Battle 1814 - Courtrai  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 6 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-72 
GM: Stephen Umbrell & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 18mm, Rules: Carnage & Glory 2 
Description: While the main Allied Armies are assaulting Paris, Saxon 
General Thielmann leads a motley force of Germans into Belgium where 
he is met by French General Maison with mix of conscripts and Young 
Guard. They meet in the farmlands just outside of the fortress of 
Courtrai.  
 
T09:156  Ctesiphon, 263  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-43 
GM: Peter Anderson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: To the Strongest! 
Description: King Odaenathus of Palmyra attacks the Sassanid Persian 
army under Shapur 1, in attempt to take the Persian capital. Rules are 
easily learned, use a gridded table and cards... no dice! Youth age 10 and 
up welcome with a playing adult, 13+ fine on their own 
 
T09:226  WW2- Battle of Salerno — Theme Game 
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-7 
GM: Zaccai Given  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 3mm, Rules: Home rules 
Description: Recreation of the Salerno invasion focused on the southern 
beaches. Players will choose Axis or Allied, and will be able to strategize 
deployment of troops. Game will be played on pre-made custom table 
top. My rule set has been played several times and I'm hoping to use 
feedback from the convention to get them published. 
 
T09:144  Battle of Trent's Reach, 25 January 1865  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth: CW-76 
GM: Robert Durst  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 6mm, Rules: Portable Ironclads & 
Dawn of Iron 
Description: Based at Chaffin's Bluff on the James, the James River 
Squadron had the highest concentration of ironclads in the Confederacy. 
At the end of December 1864 the Union Navy reassigned some ships to 
the Ft. Fisher operation in N.C. The rebels saw an opportunity to disrupt 
the siege of Richmond, by attacking the Union Army's main supply depot 
at City Point. The Confederate ships start their run in the dark, hoping to 
navigate the sunken obstacles and minefield, pushing past the shore 
batteries, before being discovered. The James River Squadron has 3 
ironclads and some armed gunboats in support. The Union has a double 
turret monitor and an armed ferryboat & double ender in support. 
There are also some reinforcements. 
 
T09:228  Hold the Line  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-2 
GM: David Rothstein  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: MVP for each side wins a prize 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 25mm, Rules: modified Warhammer 40K 10th 
Edition 
Description: Brave tank crews provide a rearguard to protect the 
evacuation.   Dread war machines advance to conquer.  Players pick a 
side to command either tanks or robots in this futuristic battle.   No 
experience necessary, modified rules will be taught   ages:10+ welcome  
 
T09:231  FLYING MACHINE DOWN! — Theme Game 
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-51 
GM: Donald Holly  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Early 20th Century, Scale: 15mm, Rules: All Quite On The 
Martian Front, 1st Edition 
Description: An aeroplane of the Signal Corp's Aeronautical Division has 
crashed amongst dense wooded terrain on its way back from 
photographing Martian positions. Its crew is presumed dead. Both 
human and Martian forces race towards the wreckage to recover 
whatever secrets it holds. Beginners welcome. Gamers under the age of 
14 are welcome with an adult. 
 
T09:294  War on Terra Nova part 1  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-5 
GM: James Faltum  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: free plastic mini 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 12mm, Rules: Heavy Gear Blitz,  ver 3.1 
Description: In the distant future war rages on the planet known as 
Terra Nova.  Piloted robots known as Heavy Gears have become the 
premiere fighting machine of choice. Join the fight for honor or just 
survival. 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  5 | 69 
 
Part 1: in TN 1909 (6115 AD), Northern Guard forces clash with Southern 
Milicia forces over an outpost in the Badland desert.  Control of this 
location will be of great importance in future battles. Rules taught, and 
all models provided.  HG Blitz uses alternating activation and reaction 
mechanics. 
 
T09:355  Ages of Conflict - Battle of Tewkesbury  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: CW-75 
GM: Michael Love  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 18 mm, Rules: Ages of Conflict 
Description: On May 4, 1471 the armies of the Houses of Lancaster and 
York met in a pivotal battle during the Wars of the Roses. King Edward 
IV, commander of the Yorkist army, forced the Lancastrians to engage in 
battle at Tewkesbury.  
The York victory resulted in the end of the Lancaster cause, the death of 
the Lancastrian figurehead, Prince Edward of Wales, and the eventual 
death of the Lancastrian king, King Henry VI.  
 
T09:383  StarForce Commander — Theme Game 
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-3 
GM: Patrick Doyle  
Sponsor: Mariner Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: Other, Rules: StarForce Commander 
Description: StarForce Commander is a thrilling game of tactical starship 
combat where every decision counts. Easy to learn, but with tactical 
depth. We'll have you in full command in 15 minutes. From arming 
weapons to maneuvering and sensor and shield management.  Join us at 
our table for a quick demo or participate in a full battle. Come say hi 
even if the timeslot is full and we'll fit you in or set up an alternate time 
to play. Don't miss out on the chance to learn StarForce Commander 
from its designers. Ages 12+. For more info: www.mariner.games 
 
T09:395  Advancing Thru The Fog Near Hill 325  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth: CW-13 
GM: Mark T.  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War I, Scale: 28mm, Rules: To The Last Man (modfied) 
Description: Germany has invaded Belgium to attack France in 1914. It is 
the day after Lt. Irwin Rommel's 1st recon mission (yes, of WW2 fame, 
except this is WW1). The French are west of Hill 325 as Rommel's 
platoon advances toward Bleid. Morning fog restricts visibility, and 
players have hidden placement. (Rules taught, 12 & under ok w/parent, 
sign up only 1 person.)  
 
T09:118  Jungle River Racing  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Commonwealth: CW-74 
GM: Jon Lundberg  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Pulp, Scale: 28mm, Rules: VSF Races 
Description: Quick starter game to open the convention.  Weird racers 
head up and across the river, avoiding the local hazards.  This is a young 
gamer friendly game.  Children under 12 are welcome to play with an 
adult.  
 
T09:127  Test of Resolve in Scotland  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 1 hrs, Players: 2, Location: :  
GM: Tim Couper  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Hundred Years War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Resolve: 
Hundred Years War 
Description: Play a complete scenario from the newly released Test of 
Resolve: Hundred Years War rules, in a typical battle of the 2nd war of 
Scottish Independence.  
 
T09:129  Test of Resolve in Scotland  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 1 hrs, Players: 2, Location: :  
GM: Tim Couper  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Hundred Years War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Resolve: 
Hundred Years War 
Description: Play a complete scenario from the newly released Test of 
Resolve: Hundred Years War rules, in a typical battle of the 2nd war of 
Scottish Independence.  
 
T09:260  Assault on the Pratzen Heights  
Thursday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-23 
GM: Larry Yakowneko  
Sponsor: FrattSpiel Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 10mm, Rules: FrattNap - Hexed 
Description: FrattSpiel Games presents a hex version of The Victory Is 
Ours! [very similar to Small Deadly Space] 4" hexes = 200yds, beautiful 
WoFun acrylic flats by Peter Dennis. These rules will be published in the 
fall by On Military Matters. Staff officers aid maneuvers, rally, and push 
failed morale for Close Actions. Very few charts, very intuitive. Check out 
Battle of Austerlitz for fuller description. Hex version of The Victory Is 
Ours! 4" hexes = 200yds, beautiful WoFun acrylic flats by Peter Dennis. 
Staff Officers, Cohesion, 6,8,10,12,20 sided dice drive combat. 
 
T10:400  Clash at Palmer's Island  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW86 
GM: Duncan Adams & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Pike & Shot, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Combat Patrol 
Description: When the first settlers of the Maryland colony arrived in 
the Chesapeake Bay in 1634 they found Virginians operating several 
trading posts within Maryland's grant. Maryland's new governor ordered 
the Virginians to submit to his rule (and taxes) or get out. When they 
refused to do either, he sent a force to eject them.  
 
T10:467  First Battle of the Fords of Isen — Theme Game 
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: : HR-36 
GM: David Danner & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Third Age of Man, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Home Brew 
Description: It is the Third Age of Man and the War of the Ring has 
begun! The forces of Saruman march against Rohan. Will Theodred and 
the Rohirrim hold the Fords of Isen against the army of the White Hand? 
Will the hordes of Uruks, Orcs, and Dunlendings break through and 
ravage the lands of the Horse-lords? Join us and find out! The fate of 
Middle-Earth is in your hands.  
 
T10:554  Saga: Age Of Invasion - Loot and Pillage  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-6 
GM: Tony Spino & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and Gaming 
Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Dark Ages, Scale: 28mm, Rules: SAGA and House rules. 
Description: Join us for  modified Age of Invasions rules to introduce 
new players or we can play full rules if we get a table of veteran players. 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  6 | 69 
 
The goal is simple - Loot the Livestock or Defend Your Herds! All 
materials provided, beginners and children welcome.  
 
T10:555  Into The Darkness: WORLD of TANKS-The Miniatures Game 
DEMO'S  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-8 
GM: James Nicholson 3rd & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and 
Gaming Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/100th, Rules: WORLD of TANKS-The 
Miniatures Game and House rules. 
Description: Enemy Spotted!! Feind Entdeckt!! Vrag Zamechen!! The 
World of Tanks: Miniatures Game is an easy to learn, quick play, small 
scale tabletop game. You take command of a Tank Platoon, seeking to  
destroy your opponents tanks and secure victory. 
 
T10:571  November 7-11, 1918   All Quiet on the Western Front — 
Theme Game 
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 2 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-3 
GM: Mike Fatovic & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War I, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Trench Wars - modified 
Description: As the Great War drags on into its fourth year, there are 
ongoing talks with the Allied Great Powers. However, your regiment has 
been given orders for one final attack to take place on November 11, 
1918 at 10:45am. Your regiment has been given the task to take the 
front line of enemy trenches in your sector. Will you be able to carry out 
your orders or will your regiment be found in the fields where the 
poppies grow... you decide ! Children ages 13 and up are welcome ! 
 
T10:582  Encounter Off Sworbe Peninsula, 21 Nov. 1944  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 7, Location: Federal Room: FD-1 
GM: Patrick Hreachmack & Naval Wargamer's Group 
Sponsor: Admiralty Trilogy Group, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Admiralty Trilogy Group’s 
Command at Sea 
Description: On November 20, 1944, a German task force comprised of 
a heavy cruiser, destroyers and torpedo boats sailed into the Gulf of 
Rega to cover the German defense of the Sworbe Peninsula and to 
retrieve German troops. That same evening at 2115, a small patrol force 
of four German vessels engaged a Soviet gunboat flotilla attempting to 
intercept and disrupt the rescue of the German troops. This is that 
action. This action is the third scenario from Clear the Coast! written by 
Patrick Hreachmack and published as part of the Admiralty Trilogy 
Group documentation. 
 
T10:628  Coalition Clash 1793  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-75 
GM: Peter Lowitt & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Carnage and Glory 2 computer 
aided rules 
Description: Dutch, British and Austrians clash with Revolutionary 
French on Belgian fields using Carnage and Glory 2 computer aided 
rules. Will the forces of Revolution triumph or will the ancient regimes 
stay there course a bit longer?  Come find out!  
 
T10:641  Quatre Bras Counterattack  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 5 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-63 
GM: Jeffrey Ball & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage & Glory 
Description: Historically, the Dutch-Belgian Chief of Staff ignored 
Wellington's order to concentrate forces as planned and abandon 
Quatre Bras.  In this scenario he acts on that order, delaying the flow of 
forces to the battlefield.  If the Allies don't hurry, the French will hold 
the crossroads and turn the Prussian right flank at Ligny, causing 
immeasurable harm to the campaign.  
 
T10:654  Into The Darkness: WARHAMMER 40K: DEMO'S: Combat 
Patrol  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-7 
GM: Lorenzo O'Branty & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and 
Gaming Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: WARHAMMER 40K and House rules. 
Description: A new edition makes planet fall. Ravening aliens strike at a 
desperate Imperium in the new edition of Warhammer 40,000. Discover 
one of the world's most popular miniatures games. Come join us in  
learning this new edition of Warhammer 40,000. All are welcome and all 
materials will be provided.  
 
T10:110  3D PanzerBlitz - German Armored Counterattack on a Russian 
Armored Spearhead 1944  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : CW-12 
GM: Gregory Johnson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Avalon Hill PanzerBlitz 
Description: German Armored Counterattack on a Russian Armored 
Spearhead 1944 
Play Avalon Hill's classic PanzerBlitz in 3D using 3mm (1/600) Oddzial 
Osmy miniatures from picoarmor.com. Beginners welcome.  
 
T10:116  Raid on Elliot's Farm  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwwealth: CW-
11 
GM: Graham Wilkinson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Renaissance, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Muskets & Tomahawks 2nd 
Edition 
Description: In May 1652, Simon Elliot's family farm is a peaceful place 
nestled near the Atlantic coast and the Massachusetts Bay Colony. The 
local militia are drilling in one of his fields and life seems so good. 
But rumours of unrest amongst the local Nipmuck Indians, reportedly 
fermented by French gold and weapons have cast a shadow as a new 
day dawns. This is the first of two games linked to the Raid on Elliot's 
Farm. 
 
T10:280  Air Over Armageddon  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-12 
GM: Matthew Fridirici  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 6mm, Rules: Aeronautica Imperialis 
Description: Ghazghkull Thraka has let loose upon the Imperial world of 
Armageddon, again. The Orks mean to take out the defenders for good 
this time. Planetary force must hold out until help can arrive!  
 
T10:681  A&A D-DAY: ADVANCED SCENARIO B — Theme Game 
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 2 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Freedom A: FA-1 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  7 | 69 
 
GM: Peter Panzeri  
Sponsor: MINIATURE BUILDING AUTHORITY  (MBA), Prize: Trophies for 
Most-Feared-Enemy & prizes from sponsor including 1 FREE COPY of 
GAME RULES & SCENARIO made available to ALL Participants after 
completion of the game. 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Modified "Axis-&-Allies D-
Day" CORPS-LEVEL game system expanded onto AN 8-foot Color Terrain 
Blanket 
Description: Your BIG CHANCE to change the fate of D-Day in a small 
game of the strategic battle using modified "Axis-&-Allies D-Day" game 
system with 20mm figures/tanks/planes, & played on a 6-foot Color 
Normandy Terrain-map (Blanket).  Maneuver brigades and divisions of 
Infantry, Armor, Artillery, naval & Air Support. Random events, music 
and mayhem. What's not to love? A war Game, A strategy game, a 
Survival game. Join GM Chris Beil & Patrick Frayne. HOSTED By the DUKE 
SEIFRIED AWARD FOUNDATION **ALSO**  DON'T MISS the Historicon 
War College Presentation: "DISASTER at D-DAY" at 5pm Thursday in the 
"Montgomery House" Lecture Room. 
 
T10:164  Action of 5 November 1813  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 7, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
15& CW-25 
GM: Doug Fisher  
Sponsor: Waterloo Games, Prize: Waterloo Games Gift Certificate 
Period: Age of Sail, Scale: 1:1200th, Rules: Far Distant Ships 
Description: Eight days of strong gale force winds had driven the 
blockading British from their stations off Toulon. On the 5th of 
November, 1813 taking advantage of the absence of blockading forces 
and favorable winds elements of the French fleet had left the harbor of 
Toulon for exercises. â€¦when the wind direction suddenly changed the 
returning British saw their chance to cut off the French rear. 
  Fast easy to learn rules that emphasize Fighting Sail era tactics and 
command and control. A sudden shift of wind direction has put 
elements of the French fleet holding exercises in danger of being cut off 
from their home port of Toulon by the returning British blockade. 
 
T10:132  Test of Resolve in France  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 1 hrs, Players: 2, Location: :  
GM: David Knight  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Hundred Years War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Resolve: 
Hundred Years War 
Description: Play a complete scenario of a typical continental battle of 
the Hundred Years War. Experience the fun of the the newly released 
Test of Resolve: Hundred Years War rules.  
 
T10:185  Western Desert Tank Fight  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-14 
GM: Joe Moore  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: What a Tanker 
Description: Western Desert free-for-all combat between British 
cruisers and a mix of German panzers using iconic chibi-style miniatures 
and Too Fat Lardies " easy to understand -What a Tanker"  Rules. More 
choices per activation than ability to accomplish them all. Get your tank 
into action quickly and use all your skills to survive the melee! Rules will 
be taught. Children 12 or younger welcome with a playing adult. 
 
T10:245  Check Your 6  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Comonwealth: CW-24 
GM: George Paler  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Check Your 6 
Description: Scenario from the Campaign Book Under Southern Skies, 
Don't Let Them Get Away 15 March, 1943 over Darwin Harbor 
Elements of No. Fighter Wing, RAAF intercepting Japanese bombing raid 
on Darwin, Australia. Presented by 2 of the authors of the campaign 
book for the Check Your 6 air combat rules 
 
T10:368  Black Sheep Squadron — Theme Game 
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 7, Location: Commonwealth: CW-31 
GM: Mark Burdette  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Prizes will be given 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/300, Rules: Bag the Hun 
Description: Who doesn't have fond memories of watching Pappy and 
the rogues of VMF-214 take to the skies to do battle with Commander 
Harachi and his Imperial Japanese Navy squadron in BAA BAA BLACK 
SHEEP? It was Corsairs versus Zeroes over The Slot. Join Mark Burdette 
and the Asheville Historical Wargamers as they refight a battle from this 
classic 1970's television show but expect some twists on the standard 
television script!  
 
T10:234  Saving England from Invasion, July 1805  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 7, Location: Commonwealth: CW-52 
GM: Phil Johnston  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 1:1200th, Rules: Modified Kiss Me Hardy 
Description: Forget Trafalgar. This is the real battle that saved England 
and scuppered Napoleon's plans for invasion. A Franco-Spanish fleet 
heads north to link up with other French ships and bring an invincible 
armada into the Channel, paving the way for the Grand Army. A patched 
together English squadron is positioned to head them off. Known 
ingloriously as Calder's Action, the closely balanced English and Allied 
fleets both stood a fair chance of winning. Can you do better than the 
original admirals? BYOG - Bring your own grog 
 
T10:266  Battle of Austerlitz  
Thursday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-37 
GM: Steve Fratt  
Sponsor: FrattSpiel Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 6mm, Rules: FrattSpiel - The Victory Is Ours! 
Description: FrattSpiel Games presents its Napoleonic game similar to 
Small Deadly Space [ACW] 1" = 50yds, 1 figure = 25 men, These rules will 
be published in the fall by On Military Matters. Staff Officers serve many 
functions for maneuver, rallying, pushing attacks. Artillery forces units to 
test morale. Close Action dominates combat, driven by Cohesion ratings 
requiring very few charts. Plays more like a War College event - atypical - 
players will feel like they actually watch the battle unfold. For the player 
looking for something innovative. Steve Fratt presents The Victory Is 
Ours! a companion game to his Small Deadly Space ACW game from last 
year. Plays like a War College Event than typical con game. For players 
seeking new approach. 
 
T11:633  Prussian Assault at Elasshausen-Battle of Froschwiller  
Thursday, 11:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-73 
GM: Thomas Garnett & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: G&G Light Pen 
Period: Franco-Prussian War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage and Glory 
Description: On August 6, the French 1 Corps defended a series of hills 
near the border town of Froschwiller.  Several advance guard brigades 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  8 | 69 
 
from the Prussian V Corps probed all along the line of contact.  Near 
Elasshausen, elements of the Prussian 9th, followed by the 10th Division 
sought to use their "pile-on" tactics to overwhelm the French 1st 
Division. Young folks 12+ plus adult sponsor (18+) are welcome 
 
T11:647  Battletech - Grinder 1  
Thursday, 11:00 AM, 2 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-9 
GM: Mark Yingling & Battletech 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 6mm, Rules: Battletech - Total Warfare 
Description: The Grinder is a free for all Battletech Demo game where 
new (or returning) players will be taught using the Introductory Rules. 
You start out with a Light Mech and as you die, you advance up to the 
next weight class. All materials, miniatures and dice will be provided. 
Beginner Friendly & Rules Taught. 
 
T11:377  Aim small, Miss small — Theme Game 
Thursday, 11:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
38 
GM: David Partak  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Live Free 
or Die 
Description: Much like the final battle in the movie, The Patriot, which 
loosely recreates the battle of Cowpens, this game will do the same for 
Guilford Courthouse. Cornwallis and Tarleton are pursuing Greene's 
Patriots in North Carolina. The opposing sides are evenly matched, at 
least in numbers. Will they be so in spirit? There may even be a special 
appearance by Benjamin Martin to help bolster the Rebels' resolve.  
 
T11:693  Test of Honour - Shogun and the Last Samurai — Theme Game 
Thursday, 11:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 24, Location: Freedom Foyer: CW-39 
GM: David Hill  
Sponsor: Things from the Basement, Your Hobby Place Ltd. and the 
Metropolitan Wargamers., Prize: Vendor Discounts 
Period: Samurai/Satsuma Rebellion, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Honour 
- Quick Play 
Description: For fans of the recent Shogun series and the less recent 
Last Samurai movie, this is the game for you. Test of Honour is a fun, 
fast-paced 28mm samurai skirmish game that I have further streamlined 
after dozens of convention games and hundreds of players. Don't be 
scared by the high player count, this is really six separate four-player 
scenarios played at the same time, with alternating activations (i.e. your 
turn is every other minute, not hour). With new scenarios, terrain and 
figures from the series and film, honor and glory await! Quick play rules 
(one piece of paper!) will be taught. Kids welcome with accompanying 
adult. All miniatures and materials provided, just bring a fun attitude. 
 
T11:677  The Battle of Edfu  
Thursday, 11:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Hickory: CW-40 
GM: Richard Rodgers & East Texas Wargamers 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Aegyptus Mythology, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Of Gods & Mortals 
Description: For over 350 years there has been peace in the land of the 
Nile. With Horus the son of Osiris ruling Lower Egypt and his uncle Set 
ruling Upper Egypt in the south. But eventually tensions began to mount 
again, as both Gods wanted to rule a unified realm. And has there was 
tension between the Gods, so too was their tension in the mortal world, 
as the people of each half of the kingdom rallied behind their ruling God 
and fought the followers of the other. 
 OGAM is a fun and fast game of when the Gods fought alongside their 
mortal worshippers. Will you stand with Horus or will you side with Set 
in this final battle for Egypt. 
 
T11:389  Tekumel Treasures  
Thursday, 11:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Hickory A: CW-41 
GM: Steve Braun  
Sponsor: Second Saturday Scrum Club, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Silver Bayonet/Home Brew 
Description: Take your warband and search the wilds of Tekumel for 
wonders of the past. But beware, most of Tekumel's flora and fauna 
wants you dead!  
 
T11:121  The Plains of Abraham  
Thursday, 11:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-42 
GM: Steven Caselli  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: French & Indian War, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Home Brew Rules 
Description: The final decisive battle of the French and Indian War. If 
you played in any of our games last year and enjoyed them you'll love 
this one. One of the few set piece field battles of the conflict both sides 
will need to think strategically and put themselves in the shoes of either 
Wolfe or Montcalm! Our rules are loosely similar to Rebels and Patriots 
so if you've played that system it will be very simple. Come play in the 
final decisive battle of the French and Indian War in glorious 54mm 
scale, the scale of HG Wells! A fun fast convention style game open to 
all, but with nuance for veteran gamers. 
 
T12:514  Retreat from Orsha June 26th 1944  
Thursday, 12:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-53 
GM: Robert Schaible & Yellow Worm Gaming Society 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Hail of Fire 
Description: Requests to remove a Fester platz (fortress city) 
designation from Orsha has been denied by Hitler. Gen. von 
Tippelskirch, realizing the insanity of the situation lies to OKH while 
ordering his men to retreat back towards Minsk. Will they escape before 
the Soviet 2nd Guards Tank Corps tightens the noose? New players 
welcome, rules taught.  
 
T12:644  Langeron vs. Lauriston 26 August 1813  
Thursday, 12:00 PM, 8 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-74 
GM: John Snead & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage & Glory II 
Description: On the Katzbach. The right flank of the French Army of the 
Bober attacks the left flank of the Allied Army of Silesia. Let's see what 
happens!  
 
T12:213  Avalon Hill's War at Sea in Miniature  
Thursday, 12:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: : CW-35 
GM: Bryan Leshinskie  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: THE PRIZE IS THE SUPRIZE 
Period: World War II, Scale: Axis & Allies Ships, Rules: Avalon Hill's War 
at Sea rules Modified (Slightly) 
Description: Battle of the Atlantic, W.W. II in miniature.  The map has 
been enlarged and the miniatures have been painted.  All are welcome 
to play with no one ever turned away.  
 
T12:705  In the Jungles of Lustria  
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  9 | 69 
 
Thursday, 12:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 5, Location: : HK-3 
GM: Eugene Oliver  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Warmaster Revolution 
Description: Welcome to the jungle, noble knights and smelly peasants! 
vast stone cities filled with gold await you! just the matter of those 
pesky lizards to deal with. But I'm sure you'll be fine 5000 points in 
armies total, will be split depending on the number of players. 
 
T13:478  Big Week! Showdown with the Luftwaffe, 1944  
Thursday, 1:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : HR-56 
GM: Mark Fastoso & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Fire in the Sky 
Description: The Eight Airforce is forcing a fight to the death with the 
Luftwaffe to pave the way to D-Day.  Join us as we play a series of 
scenarios that follow Big Week. Can the USAAF break the Luftwaffe or 
will the German veterans bleed the B-17s to the point where their 
morale breaks. Fun, fast-paced large scale air battles over Germany!  
 
T13:513  Frostgrave: Into the Deep Dungeon  
Thursday, 1:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-42 
GM: Patrick Morris & Yellow Worm Gaming Society 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Frostgrave 2nd Edition 
Description: A new discovery has been made in the frozen tundra 
surrounding Frostgrave. Word in town is that a new underground 
complex has been discovered, ripe for exploration (and looting). You and 
your companions race to the scene to gather whatever you can find, but 
you cant help but wonder who shared such a discovery, and why?  
 
T13:648  Battletech - Grinder 2  
Thursday, 1:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-9 
GM: Mark Yingling & Battletech 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 6mm, Rules: Battletech - Total Warfare 
Description: The Grinder is a free for all Battletech Demo game where 
new (or returning) players will be taught using the Introductory Rules. 
You start out with a Light Mech and as you die, you advance up to the 
next weight class. All materials, miniatures and dice will be provided. 
Beginner Friendly & Rules Taught. 
 
T13:317  The Battle of Granicus — Theme Game 
Thursday, 1:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FA-4 
GM: Brian Peruski  
Sponsor: Washington Grand Company, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Triumph! 
Description: May 334 BC this was the first of three major battles fought 
between Alexander the Great of Macedon and the Persian Achaemenid 
Empire.  In this battle Alexander forced a river crossing against a mostly 
mounted enemy supported by a large force of Greek mercenaries. This 
battle will be fought using Triumph! Rules for Tabletop Battles Ancient 
and Medieval.  Experienced and new players are welcome.  Rules will be 
taught! 
 
T13:150  BTech - Fast  Play Battletech  
Thursday, 1:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Hickory B: HK-4 
GM: Dennis Perlot  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Simplified Battletech Alpha Strike 
Rules 
Description: In the ongoing power struggle among the Clans, tensions 
between Clan Jade Falcon and Clan Wolf have escalated. Both Clans are 
vying for control over a resource-rich planet on the outskirts of their 
contested territories. The planet, named Tolland, is home to strategically 
vital research facilities. The battle will be fierce, can you help your Clan 
win? 
The rules set is BTech, based on BattleTech Alpha Strike but simplified 
for convention play. All miniatures and terrain are provided. 
 
T13:145  Skirmish at Grabon IV  
Thursday, 1:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth: CW-76 
GM: Robert Durst  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 6mm, Rules: StarFighter! 
Description: Grabon IV is the outermost inhabited world of the 
Mardonian Empire. Beyond is unexplored space. Recently, an alien 
station has been detected, hidden within an orbiting asteroid cluster. A 
group of available ships in the sector has been assembled. The mission is 
to investigate and capture the station, destroy it if necessary. There are 
many human groups in space and they have been in conflict for 
centuries. This is the first contact with non-humans. No one knows what 
to expect. The Xylosians know they have been discovered and have sent 
for help. They've been watching the humans for years and now will let 
them know they aren't alone. We'll be using some great looking retro 
rockets on a nice looking star mat. Each race has unique movement 
adding interest to the game. 
 
T13:176  Battle of Dennewitz, 1813  
Thursday, 1:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-34 
GM: Chris Von Fahnestockk  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Grande Armee Fast Play 
Description: 6 September, 1813: Ney and Bulow have stumbled around 
for days in the bad weather.  Now elements of their armies have 
bungled into each other at Dennewitz.  The race is on for each to bring 
ever more forces to the field.  This 6 player game is intense and will 
guarantee to see-saw for the entire battle.  We will teach the rules and 
will provide each player a free copy. 6 September, 1813: Ney and Bulow 
have stumbled around for days in the bad weather.  Now elements of 
their armies have bungled into each other at Dennewitz.  The race is on. 
 
T13:310  The Battle of the Nile  
Thursday, 1:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-21 
GM: Keith Wyttenbach  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 1:1200th, Rules: Form on the Admiral's Wake 
Description: August 1798. After searching across the Mediterranean, 
Rear Admiral Horatio Nelson has finally found the French fleet anchored 
in a strong position in Aboukir Bay. To take advantage of the French 
unpreparedness, Nelson chose to attack immediately in the waning 
daylight. Can the British replicate their astounding victory or can the 
French win the race against time and prepare their ships for the fight! 
Rules are easy and will be taught. Kids under 12 welcome with 
accompanying adult.  
 
T13:133  Test of Resolve in Scotland  
Thursday, 1:00 PM, 1 hrs, Players: 2, Location: :  
GM: David Knight  
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  10 | 69 
 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Hundred Years War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Resolve: 
Hundred Years War 
Description: Play a complete scenario of a typical battle of the 2nd war 
of Scottish Independence. Experience the fun of the newly released Test 
of Resolve rules.  
 
T13:316  The Battle of Nicaea  
Thursday, 1:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FA-4 
GM: Larry Weichel  
Sponsor: Washington Grand Company, Prize: NONE 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Triumph! 
Description: During the first crusade at siege of Nicaea, the Rum Turk 
Sultan attempted to rescue the city by sending a large mounted force.  
This resulted in a three day battle outside the city walls.  Heavy mounted 
knights of the crusaders vs. the swift light cavalry of the Turks will face 
off in the first major battle of the first crusade. This battle will be fought 
using Triumph! Rules for Tabletop Battles Ancient and Medieval.  
Experienced and new players are welcome.  Rules will be taught! 
 
T13:684  ULTIMATE OVERLORD #1: AIRBORNE ASSAULT: D-DAY 80th 
ANNIVERSARY — Theme Game 
Thursday, 1:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 18, Location: Freedom A: FA-2 
GM: Peter Panzeri  
Sponsor: MINIATURE BUILDING AUTHORITY  (MBA), Prize: FREE COPY of 
GAME RULES & SCENARIO made available to ALL Participants after 
completion of the game -- PLUS Trophy for "Most-Feared-Enemy" & 
other prizes from our sponsors. 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: "D-DAY 80TH" DIVISION-
LEVEL ROMMEL-RULES by Pete Panzeri: Available to all players FREE 
@Game-End! 
Description: THREE AIRBORNE DIVISIONS PARACHUTE into NORMANDY 
behind SWORD to UTAH beaches. Can they capture all of their objectives 
to help secure the key beachheads? Can BRIT "Red Devils" take 
MEREVILLE Battery, PEGASUS Bridge plus other key bridges?  Can 82d & 
101st AIRBORNE take SAINT-MERE-EGLISE, UTAH-Causeways, Barquette-
Lock, & KEY Bridges?  Can they all "HOLD UNTIL RELIEVED?" Will 
defenders wipe them out? Can Rommel's Panzers roll them over? Plan 
rapid & intense & Division-Level attacks in this exciting battle. Starts 
with RESPECTS RENDERED to our WW2 VETS. A ONE-TIME-ONLY 
SCENARIO" at HISTORICON'24: DON'T MISS IT! **ALSO**  DON'T MISS 
the War College Presentation: "DISASTER at D-DAY" at 5pm Thursday in 
the "Montgomery House" Lecture Room. 
 
T14:166  La Fiere Bridge, No better Place to Die - Normandy, 6-9 June 
1944  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-22 
& CW-32 
GM: Michael Burch  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Rapid Fire Reloaded 
Description: Can scattered elements of the 82nd Airborne hold the 
crossings on the Merderet River until U.S. forces from Utah Beach arrive, 
or will the grenadiers of the 91st Luftlande Division overrun the 
paratroopers and drive on to Ste. Mere-Eglise? Come what SLA Marshall 
called, one of the most hotly contested pieces of ground in WWII, pick 
your side and see who prevails. We will compress roughly three days of 
fighting into a four-hour game. Rules will be taught and casualties will 
the high.  
 
T14:167  La Fiere Bridge, No better place to die - Normandy, 6-9 June 
1944  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-22 
& CW-32 
GM: John Rockne  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Rapid Fire Reloaded 
Description: Can scattered elements of the 82nd Airborne hold the 
crossings on the Merderet River until U.S. forces from Utah Beach arrive, 
or will the grenadiers of the 91st Luftlande Division overrun the 
paratroopers and drive on to Ste. Mere-Eglise? Come what SLA Marshall 
called, one of the most hotly contested pieces of ground in WWII, pick 
your side and see who prevails. We will compress roughly three days of 
fighting into a four-hour game. Rules will be taught and casualties will 
the high.  
 
T14:438  Battle of the Great Plains, 203 BC  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-83 
GM: Kurt Schlegel & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 10mm, Rules: To The Strongest 
Description: After the debacle at Utica, the Carthaginians have reformed 
their army to face Scipio in an area known as the Great Plains. 
Frustrated by the lack of progress with the siege of Utica, Scipio marches 
directly on the Carthaginians, confident in the superiority of his veteran 
Romans and new ally Masinissa. Refight this decisive battle, which led to 
the recall of Hannibal from Italy and the end of the Carthaginian Empire.  
 
T14:468  First Battle of the Fords of Isen — Theme Game 
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: : HR-36 
GM: David Danner & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Third Age of Man, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Home Brew 
Description: It is the Third Age of Man and the War of the Ring has 
begun! The forces of Saruman march against Rohan. Will Theodred and 
the Rohirrim hold the Fords of Isen against the army of the White Hand? 
Will the hordes of Uruks, Orcs, and Dunlendings break through and 
ravage the lands of the Horse-lords? Join us and find out! The fate of 
Middle-Earth is in your hands.  
 
T14:470  FIREBALL FORWARD - Easy Company — Theme Game 
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: : HR-57 
GM: Michael DeCarlo & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Fireball Forward 
Description: 80th D-Day Anniversary Commemoration game. On the 
morning of the D-Day landings Lieutenant Dick Winters, commanding 
Easy Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne, gathered the few men 
available and moved to silence the German artillery shelling Utah Beach.  
This action is depicted in Band of Brothers, Episode Two: Day of Days.  
 
T14:510  The Bride — Theme Game 
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-14 
GM: Michael Hopper & DelVal 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Dark Ages, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Ravenfeast 
Description: Svein Bloodsson arranged an alliance with the Gaels across 
the sea. To seal the alliance Svein must marry a young Gaelic maiden 
named Thursmansdottir. Will Thursmansdottir become the bride or will 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  11 | 69 
 
Ivar Forktongue arrive in the longship he previously stole from Svein, 
and successfully stop the wedding? 
 
T14:548  Mission for the Governer!!  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-44 
GM: Rick Dunn & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Age of Piracy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Old Glory GGG and Foundry 
Description: Sentence to Death for Piracy the Governor offers you a 
chance to redeem your self and your crew by killing those native's who 
has been attacking them for sometime and maybe some treasure as 
well. So what will it be Treasure or the Galley!!  
 
T14:556  Into The Darkness: WORLD of TANKS-The Miniatures Game 
DEMO'S  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-8 
GM: James Nicholson 3rd & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and 
Gaming Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/100th, Rules: WORLD of TANKS-The 
Miniatures Game and House rules. 
Description: Enemy Spotted!! Feind Entdeckt!! Vrag Zamechen!! The 
World of Tanks: Miniatures Game is an easy to learn, quick play, small 
scale tabletop game. You take command of a Tank Platoon, seeking to  
destroy your opponents tanks and secure victory.  
 
T14:572  November 7-11, 1918   All Quiet on the Western Front — 
Theme Game 
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-3 
GM: Mike Fatovic & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War I, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Trench Wars - modified 
Description: As the Great War drags on into its fourth year, there are 
ongoing talks with the Allied Great Powers. However, your regiment has 
been given orders for one final attack to take place on November 11, 
1918 at 10:45am. Your regiment has been given the task to take the 
front line of enemy trenches in your sector. Will you be able to carry out 
your orders or will your regiment be found in the fields where the 
poppies grow... you decide ! Children ages 13 and up are welcome ! 
 
T14:584  The Battle of Tsushima — Theme Game 
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 9, Location: Federal Room: FD-1 
GM: Jay Wissman & Naval Wargamer's Group 
Sponsor: Admiralty Trilogy Group, Prize: Gift Certificate 
Period: Pre-WWI, Scale: 1:2400th, Rules: Dawn of the Battleship 
Description: I am doing my dumbest to insure victory! was the poorly 
subtitled assertion of a naval commander during the movie Battle of the 
Japan Sea (1969) as the Japanese Navy engages the Russian Navy in the 
more commonly referred to Battle of Tsushima.  For Historicon 2024, 
the Admiralty Trilogy version of this iconic battle allows the players 
more tactical freedom in deciding how to engage the enemy in order to 
ensure victory. Join the Admiralty Trilogy Group as we present a script 
change to the opening move of the Battle of Tsushima. 
 
T14:616  Early Imperial Roman vs Germanic Tribes - 12 BC  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-16 
GM: Erik Pulkka & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Infamy, Infamy! 
Description: Tensions between the Germanic tribes and the Romans 
began as early as 17/16 BC with the Clades Lolliana, where the 5th 
Legion under Marcus Lollius was defeated by the tribes Sicambri, 
Usipetes, and Tencteri. Roman Emperor Augustus responded by rapidly 
developing military infrastructure across Gaul. His general, Nero 
Claudius Drusus, began building forts along the Rhine in 13 BC and 
launched a retaliatory campaign across the Rhine in 12 BC. 
It is now 12 BC, is time for the Romans to strike back?  Join us for a foray 
into the dangerous lands of the Germanic tribes to gain Glory or Infamy.  
 Infamy, Infamy! Wargames rules are for large skirmishes in the Ancient 
World. 
 
T14:620  The Cinderella Army Operation WellHit  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-28 
GM: Thomas Sero & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Chain of Command 
Description: Three months after D-Day with the German army on the 
run, the 1st Canadian Army is tasked with defeating Hitlers "Atlantic 
Wall" . On the 17th of September 1st Canadian Army begins Operation 
â€œWellHitâ€  with 2 infantry brigades plus supporting armour, 
artillery, and aircraft to liberate the port of Boulogne Sur-Mer. They are 
facing 10,000 well dug in German troops. It will take five days of heavy 
fighting to finally declare victory for the Allies. No experience necessary, 
4 Platoon commanders needed. 
 
T14:157  Ctesiphon, 263  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-43 
GM: Peter Anderson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: To the Strongest! 
Description: King Odaenathus of Palmyra attacks the Sassanid Persian 
army under Shapur 1, in attempt to take the Persian capital. Rules are 
easily learned, use a gridded table and cards... no dice! Youth age 10 and 
up welcome with a playing adult, 13+ fine on their own 
 
T14:367  Battle for the Bridge--The Supplies Must Get Through  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-63 
GM: Andrew Schultz  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Sharp Practice--ACW 
Description: The supply train is on the move!!  The train moves towards 
a small, but important bridge that needs to be crossed so that the army 
can be resupplied.  An enemy force has moved on the bridge 
determined to stop the supplies from getting through.  Will your units 
be able to take the bridge?  Find out!! Each player will command a unit 
of infantry, cavalry, or artillery in this game.  I run the typical Sharp 
Practice units like regiments of infantry and cavalry, and a cannon will 
act like a battery. 
 
T14:694  Test of Honour - Shogun and the Last Samurai — Theme Game 
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 24, Location: Freedom Foyer: FP-1 
GM: David Hill  
Sponsor: Things from the Basement, Your Hobby Place Ltd. and the 
Metropolitan Wargamers., Prize: Vendor Discounts 
Period: Samurai, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Honour - Quick Play 
Description: For fans of the recent Shogun series and the less recent 
Last Samurai movie, this is the game for you. Test of Honour is a fun, 
fast-paced 28mm samurai skirmish game that I have further streamlined 
after dozens of convention games and hundreds of players. Don't be 
scared by the high player count, this is really six separate four-player 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  12 | 69 
 
scenarios played at the same time, with alternating activations (i.e. your 
turn is every other minute, not hour). With new scenarios, terrain and 
figures from the series and film, honor and glory await! Quick play rules 
(one piece of paper!) will be taught. Kids welcome with accompanying 
adult. All miniatures and materials provided, just bring a fun attitude. 
 
T14:111  3D PanzerBlitz - German Armored Counterattack on a Russian 
Armored Spearhead 1944  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-12 
GM: Gregory Johnson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Avalon Hill PanzerBlitz 
Description: German Armored Counterattack on a Russian Armored 
Spearhead 1944 Play Avalon Hill's classic PanzerBlitz in 3D using 3mm 
(1/600) Oddzial Osmy miniatures from picoarmor.com. Beginners 
welcome.  
 
T14:232  THE OUTSKIRTS — Theme Game 
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-51 
GM: Donald Holly  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Early 20th Century, Scale: 15mm, Rules: All Quite On The 
Martian Front, 1st Edition 
Description: A roving band of Martian war machines is heading towards 
the ruined outskirts of a city occupied by human forces. The human 
troops deploy amongst the ruins, ready to meet and hopefully defeat 
the invaders. The Martians will attempt to drive away the humans and 
establish a foothold in the city. In this scenario, the Martians are the 
attackers, and the humans are the defenders. Gamers under the age of 
14 are welcome with an adult. 
 
T14:295  War on Terra Nova part 2  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-5 
GM: James Faltum  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: free plastic mini 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 12mm, Rules: Heavy Gear Blitz,  ver 3.1 
Description: In the distant future war rages on the planet known as 
Terra Nova.  Piloted robots known as Heavy Gears have become the 
premiere fighting machine of choice. Join the fight for honor or just 
survival. 
Part 2: in TN 1914 (6118 AD), Earth invasion forces clash with Terra 
Novan forces over an outpost in the Badland desert.  Control of this 
location will be of great importance in future battles. Rules taught, and 
all models provided.  HG Blitz uses alternating activation and reaction 
mechanics. 
 
T14:345  Trailer Park Warlords of the Apocalypse â€“ Running of the 
Flamingos  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-1 
GM: Michael Stoneburner  
Sponsor: Bad Goblin Games, Prize: Drink Koozie 
Period: Future, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Trailer Park Warlords of the 
Apocalypse 
Description: There aren't too many sporting events within the Mega 
Trailer Parks, though one regular occurrence is the Running of the 
Flamingos. No one knows how this bizarre spectacle originated, though 
its popularity is unmatched. During this event, participants run through 
a street race in which vicious killer flamingos are let loose on the racers.  
 
T14:396  A Surprise At Mussey-la-Ville  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth: CW-13 
GM: Mark T.  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War I, Scale: 28mm, Rules: To The Last Man (modified) 
Description: Lt. Irwin Rommel (yes, of WW2 fame, except this is WW1) 
rapidly advances with his scouting group, reaching Mussey-La-Ville 
ahead of his platoon. The fog limits vision, and the French are caught 
relaxing. Can the Germans attack fast enough, before the French stop 
them in their boots? (Rules taught, 12 & under ok with parent, sign up 1 
person.)  
 
T14:707  ESR Napoleonics â€“ Learn to Play  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 3.5 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Vendor Hall: ERS 
GM: David Ensteness  
Sponsor: The Wargaming Company, LLC, Prize: Product discount for 
players at the Historicon 2024 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Et sans rÃ©sultat! Series 3 (ESR 
Napoleonics) 
Description: Players will be acting as one of Napoleon's marshals  "or 
one of their opponents"  commanding a corps-sized Force and 
coordinating it against their adversary. ESR emphasizes large scale 
events, not micromanagement. Game play focuses on maneuver and 
management of divisional-sized elements, not tactical decisions. We'll 
be playing at 1"=150 yards, 1' to the mile. Players will be grouped by 
experience level, Quick Reference Guide available for download: 
https://thewargamingcompany.com/esr-players-guide/ 
 
T14:128  Test of Resolve in France  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 1 hrs, Players: 2, Location: :  
GM: Tim Couper  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Hundred Years War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Resolve: 
Hundred Years War 
Description: Play a complete scenario of a typical continental battle of 
the Hundred Years War. Experience the fun of the the newly released 
Test of Resolve: Hundred Years War rules.  
 
T14:186  Ruhr Forest Tank Battle  
Thursday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Comonwealth: CW-33 
GM: Robert Varga  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Beer and Pretzel Home rules 
Description: The Germans are retreating, Patton is advancing rapidly 
after them needing to capture the bridge. The road to that bridge has 
been cut off. Patton can't wait for grounded Air support he needs that 
crossing. He assigns his tanks the task via the Ruhr Forest bypassing the 
road and advancing to the bridge. Which is protected by an Anti-Tank 
Gun, and hidden Armor ready to ambush anything they encounter. The 
area has small hills, heavily wooded, which aids or hinders both sides.  
 
T15:420  Jungle Patrol  
Thursday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-85 
GM: Kevin Fischer & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Mobile Suit Gundam: The Gravity 
Front 
Description: The Principality of Zeon have been active in the jungles. Can 
the Earth Federation deal with the feared mobile suits with their own? 
Who will survive?  
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  13 | 69 
 
 
T15:448  The Russo Japanese War: A LWTV Campaign Game 2 — 
Theme Game 
Thursday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: : HR-37 
GM: Miles Reidy & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Russo-Japanese War, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Altar of Empires 
Description: Often described as World War Zero, the Russo Japanese 
War was a titanic struggle between a declining European power and an 
emerging Asian one which featured a terrifying glimpse of what WW1 
had instore.  Players will be resolve battles that occur over the course of 
a campaign being played out over the convention. The outcome of the 
table top fighting directly influences the progress of the campaign.  
 
T15:459  Ragnars Raid — Theme Game 
Thursday, 3:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : HR-47 
GM: Brad Schaive & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Dark Ages, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Battlelust 
Description: Raiders from the North sweep into a Saxon village looking 
for gold and silver under the guise of a very harsh form of wealth 
redistribution. The game will be played on a custom table fit only for the 
finest of Jarls.  Play will be fast paced and rewards will be in the form of 
miniature gold, silver and captives for ransom or a place at the table in 
Valhalla.  
 
T15:607  Out of Ammunition: God Save the King — Theme Game 
Thursday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-24 
GM: John Emmett & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Chain of Command 
Description: Arnhem, Netherlands, 1944: Although successful in 
repelling the early German probing attacks, John Frost's perimeter 
around the Arnhem road bridge's north end continued to shrink. 
German artillery firing over open sights and several Kampfgruppe 
attacks had reduced buildings to ruins with some catching fire. In this 
hypothetical scenario will the South Staffords break out of the 
Oosterbeek Perimeter to bolster Frost's defense, or will the German 
Kampfgruppes finally force the surrender of the British Airborne?  
 
T15:609  Dunkirk: Duel in the skies over Operation Dynamo. — Theme 
Game 
Thursday, 3:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-27 
GM: Eric Boyle & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Bag the Hun 
Description: The Evacuation from Dunkirk across the channel is 
underway. The RAF has sortied to cover the evacuation fleet.  The 
Luftwaffe has other ideas and is sending its infamous Stuka dive 
bombers to sink the motley collection of ships. Try out Bag the Hun  
Two Fat Lardies rules for aerial combat in WWII. This game will use a 
hexless modification. Each player controls a flight of aircraft. A Lard 
America event.  
 
T15:611  Hollywood Studios Shootout — Theme Game 
Thursday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-25 
GM: John Seitz & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Western, Scale: 28mm, Rules: What A Cowboy 
Description: Return to those thrilling days of yesteryear on an iconic 
Hollywood backlot where famous Western movie and TV actors 
characters are searching to "resurrect their careersâ€  and be the King 
of the Cowboys. 
 Is this the real life? Is this just fantasy? Boy have we got an adventure 
for you! 
Quiet on the set. Roll cameras. ACTION! 
 
T15:623  1st Bull Run  
Thursday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-15 
GM: Richard Jaekel & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Pickett's Charge 
Description: The First Battle of Bull Run. The battle was fought on July 
21, 1861. The Union Army was slow in positioning themselves, allowing 
Confederate reinforcements time to arrive by rail. Each side had about 
18,000 poorly trained and poorly led troops.  
 
T15:655  Into The Darkness: WARHAMMER 40K: DEMO'S: Combat 
Patrol  
Thursday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-7 
GM: James Harvey & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and Gaming 
Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: WARHAMMER 40K and House rules. 
Description: A new edition makes planet fall. Ravening aliens strike at a 
desperate Imperium in the new edition of Warhammer 40,000. Discover 
one of the world's most popular miniatures games. Come join us in  
learning this new edition of Warhammer 40,000. All are welcome and all 
materials will be provided.  
 
T15:281  Counter-attack at Hive Helsreach  
Thursday, 3:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-12 
GM: Matthew Fridirici  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 6mm, Rules: Aeronautica Imperialis 
Description: The Orks have maintained their foothold on Armageddon 
and the Imperium's forces have showed up en masse in a desperate 
hope to repel and take out the greenskin invaders.  
 
T15:373  What would Nelson give to be here.  
Thursday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Commonwealth: CW-52 
GM: Les Benoodt  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 1:1200th, Rules: Kiss Me Hardy Modified 
Description: Nelson gets all the glory, but the brunt of the Battle of 
Trafalgar fell on Rear Admiral Cuthbert Collingwood and his leeward 
squadron which first broke the Franco-Spanish line and fought 
unsupported until Nelson eventually showed up. This scenario pits 
Collingwood's ships against some of the best the Allies had to offer on 
that fateful day. Refight this marginally famous engagement and gain 
the glory for yourself. BYOG- Bring your own grog 
 
T15:151  Battle of North Cape  
Thursday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Commonwealth: CW-53 
GM: Will Nesbitt  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Flattops & Floating Fortresses 
Period: World War II, Scale: Other, Rules: Flattops & Floating Fortresses 
Description: In icy waters north of Norway, the British Royal Navy and 
the Kriegsmarine face off. The German goal is to sink a convoy headed 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  14 | 69 
 
for Murmansk. But the British have a trap set to ensnare the powerful 
battleship Scharnhorst and her escorts. Fast-play WW2 naval game with 
hidden movement, submarines, and merchant vessels. 
 
T16:401  A Bridge in Spain  
Thursday, 4:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-86 
GM: Duncan Adams & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Combat Patrol 
Description: It's campaign season in Spain and the armies are on the 
move. Wellington needs to control a key bridge and has sent a company 
of Portuguese light infantry to clear the way. The French party guarding 
the 
bridge has other ideas. Under 12 welcome with a playing adult. 
 
T16:601  Battle of Assunpink Creek  
Thursday, 4:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-17 
GM: Edward Bowen & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Sharp 
Practice 2 
Description: We've got the old fox safe now. We'll go over and bag him 
in the morning. - Gen Charles Cornwallis.  But do they?  Can you, like 
General Washington, fight a successful delaying action and keep the 
British from reaching Trenton before nightfall?  Or, as Cornwallis will you 
be able to push aside the advance forces of the Continental Army and 
crush Washington at his position along Assunpink Creek.  Will you bag 
the old fox?  Join us for large skirmish action in wintry New Jersey using 
Sharp Practice rules.   
 Beginners welcome. 
 
T16:303  Pickett's Charge - The War Game — Theme Game 
Thursday, 4:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
41,51, 
GM: Jim Purky  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Never Call Retreat 
Description: You've seen the movie Gettysburg and now is your chance 
to replay Pickett's Charge in epic 54mm scale with a cast of over 1,200 
figures. Will you lead the Confederate charge up Cemetery Ridge or will 
you stand fast with Winnie Hancock and turn back the rebel tide? 
Victory Points allow for either side to win the game. Good ground and  
easy to learn rules lead to a fast paced game.  
 
T16:117  Raid on Elliot's Farm - the aftermath  
Thursday, 4:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth: CW-11 
GM: Graham Wilkinson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Renaissance, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Muskets & Tomahawks 2nd 
Edition 
Description: In May 1652, Simon Elliot's family farm is a peaceful place 
nestled near the Atlantic coast and the Massachusetts Bay Colony.  
But the farm has been raided by French forces from Nouvelle-France 
supported by local Nipmuck Indians. Have the farmers and Militia 
successfully defended the farm or will local farmers hurrying to the area 
be required to search for captives? This is a follow up game Raid On 
Elliot's Farm. 
 
T16:219  Eutaw Springs  
Thursday, 4:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritgae: HR-13 
GM: David Paul Miller  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 54mm, Rules: 
Commands and Colors - Tricorne 
Description: The year is 1781, the Southern Campaign rages on at Eutaw 
Springs, just outside of Charleston. Nathaniel Greene faces off against 
Crown forces under Alexander Stewart. We'll play this using the Epic 
format.  
 
T17:651  Battletech - Operation RIPOSTE - Kawich  
Thursday, 5:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-9 
GM: Mark Yingling & Battletech 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 6mm, Rules: Battletech - Total Warfare 
Description: Operation RIPOSTE is the Capellan Confederation 
counterattacking during the 4th Succession War on Federated Suns for 
their attack. Warrior House Hiritsu leads the attack on the planet of 
Kawich and  are surprised by the Eridani Light Horse Striker Regiment 
and 1st Davion Guards. Capellan forces tried to speed to their target, but 
ended up having to fight for their lives to try and escape. All materials, 
miniatures and dice will be provided. Intermediate to experienced 
players and no Players under 15 years old. 
 
T17:174  "Well Major, Looks Like You've Found a Real War" — Theme 
Game 
Thursday, 5:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-22 
GM: Roxanne Patton  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Brother Against Brother 
Description: Supposedly trapped at the river, Charlton Heston as Major 
Dundee leads his polyglot force in a charge against the Imperial 
Mexicans while the finest of Europe's cavalry gallop towards his rear. 
Children under 18 are welcomed with a playing adult. 
 
T17:199  VSF: Two Dinos for Sister Sarah — Theme Game 
Thursday, 5:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-4 
GM: Gabriel Landowski  
Sponsor: MHWA, Prize: NONE 
Period: Victorian Science Fiction, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Damned Human 
Race 
Description: When debris from an ancient alien space fleet seeds the 
solar system in 1863, a lot of weird and wonderful things emerge! Take 
part as towering dinosaurs and thundering steam walkers struggle for 
ultimate control while the the colonial powers of Europe play out the 
same old game but with a new twist! MHWA: Kid friendly 
 
T17:119  A New Apocalypse — Theme Game 
Thursday, 5:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Commonwealth: CW-74 
GM: Jon Lundberg  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Fistful of Lead 
Description: Colonel Kurtz was insane and was dealt with. The Reports 
from Colonel Lang beggar belief. A Huey went down with sensitive 
papers and those must be retrieved before they fall into enemy hands. A 
SEAL team is off on separate mission to determine why so many brown 
water boats have gone missing. From the NVA side the Roundeyes are 
pushing in where they don't belong, but more concerning are the odd 
occurrences. Weird Vietnam  
 
T18:415  Dorothy (and allies) versus the Wicked Witch (and allies)  
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  15 | 69 
 
Thursday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-82 
GM: David Wood & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Feudal Patrol 
Description: This time the Wicked Witch has brought flying Apes (and a 
few other allies). Will she get Dorothy's slippers this time or will Dorothy 
and her friends ensure she gets away again?  
 
T18:529  The Patriot-Games: Hannah's Cowpens — Theme Game 
Thursday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-61 
GM: John Drye & Pittsburgh Band of Gamers 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 15mm, Rules: ToB Volley 
and Bayonet 
Description: Following the loss at Cowpens in January 1781 General 
Cornwallis decided to pursue the Continentals into North Carolina. The 
resulting battle at Guilford Court House was described as 'the largest 
and most hotly contested action" in the south. The Colonial Army under 
General Greene was a mix of new recruits and continentals. Cornwallis 
force included the cream of the army including guards and grenadiers, 
supported by royal artillery, The Volley and Bayonet  rules allow for a 
recreation of this tide-turning engagement, that actually does bear some 
resemblance to the movie. The battle of Hannahs Cowpens was 
described as: "a battle, in which greater numbers were not engaged, 
which was so important in its consequences." . The January 17, 1781 
battle was fought in South Carolina 
 
T18:536  JOE HACK Britian 43 AD African Tuetoburg Wald  
Thursday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage: HR-55 
GM: Joe Swartz & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: JOE HACK 
Description: As rumors flow through the British countryside of the 
fearsome Africans rampaging through their farms and villages, the 
British come together with infantry that is just as tough as the Africans, 
plenty of light cavalry, and chariots and race towards the Africans with 
the elephants who are destroying their homeland. Unbeknowst to the 
British, the Africans have prepared an ambush for the British column as 
it meanders through the woods. rules taught & minors welcome with 
adult 
 
T18:543  FIGHTING STEAM   TINCLAD RAIDERS  
Thursday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-43 
GM: Paul Meyer & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 1:1000th, Rules: FIGHTING STEAM  -  
(Augmented) 
Description: Federal gunboats attack a sleepy river port looking to seize 
contraband cotton   But the locals have seen all this before and they're  
durn tard of it  That's why they built that "watchdog" - and gave it some 
teeth! Fighting Steam is a fast-play game for ACW naval actions inspired 
by the SPI classic Fighting Sail.   Rules will be taught.  Young players 
welcome with a playing adult 
 
T18:549  Car Wars - Death Race 2074  
Thursday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-6 
GM: Frank Osborn & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and Gaming 
Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Future, Scale: 12mm, Rules: Car Wars 6th Edition and House 
rules. 
Description: Hit and run driving is no longer a felony, it's the national 
sport! Score points for reaching checkpoints. Score even more points for 
"soft" targets. Who will win this year's race? Who cares as long as blood 
is spilled on the highway! Rules will be taught.  
 
T18:625  Battle of Nyezane, Anglo-Zulu War, 1879  
Thursday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Heritage: HR-64 
GM: Gregory Starace & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Gift Certificates from ScaleTree and Scarlet Lancer 
Painting Services 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage & Glory II 
Description: Col Pearsons No 1 Coastal Column is beginning the 
laborious task of fording his wagons of his First Division across the waist 
deep Nyezane River. While some cavalry vedettes are posted for 
security the rest of the command is in a relaxed posture. At 8 am it is 
reported that a small party of Zulus is seen gathering in the hills to the 
North. Surely this is just another small group needing to be chased off so 
that the column can reach its objective,  the outpost at Eshowe. Awards 
donated by ScaleTree - https://www.scaletree.com/ - and Scarlet Lancer 
Painting Services -
https://www.facebook.com/groups/7532824256796018 
 
T18:642  Quatre Bras Counterattack  
Thursday, 6:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-63 
GM: Bruce Taylor & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage & Glory 
Description: Historically, the Dutch-Belgian Chief of Staff ignored 
Wellington's order to assemble as planned and abandon Quatre Bras.  
Here, he obeys the order and the Allies need to counterattack to take 
the crossroads back and prevent the French from sending large forces 
onto the Prussian right flank at Ligny, which would result in 
immeasurable harm to the allied campaign.  
 
T18:275  Roman Circus III  
Thursday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 16, Location: Freedom Foyer: FP-2 
GM: Gordon Andrews  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Roman Circus III 
Description: Step into the arena and mount your chariot to compete in 
the spectacle that is Roman Circus III. Speed, agility, master of the whip 
or all out ramming are the tools of your trade!  Roman chariot racing at 
its finest! 5 Guys and a Lawyer who brought you the ridiculously large 
Gangster game and 55 Days at Peking 
 
T18:103  Crystallum: Assault on City 31  
Thursday, 6:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-2 
GM: Christopher Masucci  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 15mm, Rules: GUARDS second edition (Crystallum 
Armies) 
Description: The wasteland marauder gang known as the Heralds of the 
Apocalypse have amassed forces and seek to invade and loot the P.A.C.A 
corporate facilities at City 31. Take control of the marauders or the 
defenders of corporate interests and decide the fate of City 31. All 
participants will receive a free model.  
 
T18:370  Masters of the Air - Part 1 — Theme Game 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  16 | 69 
 
Thursday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-1 
GM: Martin Fenelon  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Fight for the Skies: 
Luftwaffe 1946 
Description: The Bloody One-Hundreth is enroute to France for another 
bombing mission, with a fighter escort. The Luftwaffe is on hand once 
again to stop them. Fast-play WW II air-to-air combat with the Luftwaffe 
1946 rules. No experience needed, rules will be taught. 
 
T18:255  Sons of the Desert - French Foreign Legion  
Thursday, 6:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-14 
GM: Bill Seaman  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Men Who Would Be Kings 
Description: French legionnaires defend a desert fort and nearby oasis 
along the Algerian-Morracan border!  Can they hold out until a relief 
column arrives?  
 
T18:189  Aerodrome 2.0 Libya dogfight  
Thursday, 6:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage: HR-71 
GM: Mark Wukas  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Wings and medals for victory and valor. 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/144, Rules: Aerodrome - Aerial Combat 
Rules 
Description: en. Rommel has directed the Luftwaffe to clear the skies of 
RAF fighters defending the British Eighth Army. You'll mix it up over the 
sands of western Egypt as Me109s clash with an RAF force of P-40s, 
Hurricanes and Spitfires. Which plane, or pilot, will prove better on the 
day? It's up to you. This simulated air combat will use the popular 
Aerodrome- Aerial Combat Rules. Easy to learn and fun to play. Rules 
taught; all equipment provided. Wings and medals for victory and valor. 
 
T18:247  The Battle of Bunker Hill — Theme Game 
Thursday, 6:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-42 
GM: James McGaughey  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 15mm, Rules: British 
Grenadier 
Description: Daybreak June 17, 1775. The British awaken to sounds of 
the Royal Navy firing at a Rebel redoubt built overnight that threatens 
Boston Harbor. British General Gage orders troops to dislodge the 
Rebels. 
Come join Generals Howe, Pigot and Clinton as they set out to teach the 
Rebels a lesson. Or, stand fast with Colonels Prescott, Stark, and Dr. 
Warren to fight for independence. Whatever happens will have lasting 
effects for the rest of the war. 
The Hollywood connection? The Battle of Bunker Hill, 1911 film starring 
produced by Thomas Edison’s studios - the patent holder for motion 
pictures. 
 Quick food/drink break taken. 
 
 
T18:261  Assault on the Pratzen Heights  
Thursday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-23 
GM: Larry Yakowneko  
Sponsor: FrattSpiel Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 10mm, Rules: FrattNap - Hexed 
Description: FrattSpiel Games presents a hex version of The Victory Is 
Ours! [very similar to Small Deadly Space] 4" hexes = 200yds, beautiful 
WoFun acrylic flats by Peter Dennis. These rules will be published in the 
fall by On Military Matters. Staff officers aid maneuvers, rally, and push 
failed morale for Close Actions. Very few charts, very intuitive. Check out 
Battle of Austerlitz for fuller description. Hex version of The Victory Is 
Ours! 4" hexes = 200yds, beautiful WoFun acrylic flats by Peter Dennis. 
Staff Officers, Cohesion, 6,8,10,12,20 sided dice drive combat. 
 
T19:403  Viking Blood Feud  
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-84 
GM: Edward Watts & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Dark Ages, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Fistful of Lead - Might and Melee 
Description: A mother leads her family against her sons' murderers 
condemned but unpunished at the last Fylkis-Thing. Some cousins might 
join in for less honorable motives. Rules taught at table. 
 
T19:424  Lean to Play Wars of Eagles and Empires  
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-71 
GM: Buck Surdu & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Wars of Eagles and Empires 
Description: Players command French brigades attempting to force a 
river crossing at a Polish village or the Russian defenders in 1807. Based 
on the popular Wars of Ozz family of rules, Wars of Eagles and Empires 
provides an old-school feel with modern mechanics. The unique 
activation mechanism provides friction while allowing players to 
influence the battle. The reaction test mechanic provides the right level 
of unpredictability.  Wars of Eagles and Empires sets out to prove the 
Napoleonic games can be fun. Rules will be taught.  Younger players 
welcome with a participating adult.  No booze, please. 
 
T19:439  Vitoria, 21 June 1813  
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-83 
GM: Kurt Schlegel & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 10mm, Rules: SAF Napoleonics 
Description: On 21 June 1813 a British, Portuguese and Spanish army 
under the Marquess of Wellington broke the French army under King 
Joseph Bonaparte and Marshal Jean-Baptiste Jourdan near Vitoria in 
Spain, eventually leading to victory in the Peninsular War. This is the 1st 
of 3 versions of the battle, each using a different rule set.  
 
T19:471  Silver Swallows - Vietnam Dogfight  
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 5, Location: : HR-57 
GM: Tom Ballou & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Vietnam, Scale: 1:200th, Rules: Check Your 6- Jet Age 
Description: The first clash of the Vietnam War. The USS Hancock and 
USS Coral Sea launched a coordinated strike on a vital bridge in North 
Vietnam. The sky was hazy with limited visibility. The Coral Sea's strike 
group went in first followed by the Hancock's aircraft. As the last A-4s 
started to roll in, the escorting F-8s spread out as unseen MiG's slipped 
into the mix.  
 
T19:479  I Rode with Custer — Theme Game 
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : HR-56 
GM: Benjamin Bentley & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Western, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Ruthless 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  17 | 69 
 
Description: Ever since that fateful day when George Armstrong Custers 
battalion of the Seventh Cavalry met its fate on the Little Bighorn River, 
men made careers by selling their stories claiming to be the sole 
survivor. By the 1950s the last of these men, as well as the Sioux and 
Cheyenne participants, were in their twilight years. They all vied for a 
chance to tell the tallest tale and have their story become a bestselling 
book which would dominate the United States understanding of the 
battle. Weave your own exciting story of the battle and seek fame and 
fortune by fighting your way through the most dramatic moments of the 
Battle of the Little Bighorn! 
 
T19:487  The Battle of Midway, 1942 — Theme Game 
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : HR-46 
GM: Carl cardozo & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Fire in the Sky 
Description: Trouble is, I want that fourth carrier! Take command of the 
fearsome Kido Butai or the valiant US Navy in the struggle for the 
Pacific! The IJN has its sights set on capturing a target called AF - 
and thanks to the codebreakers in Hawaii, they wont take Midway 
without a fight! Each player commands a carriers complement of 
fighters and bombers. Play the strategic game using 
Avalon Hills classic Midway game, and the airstrikes using the new 
wargame rules Fire in the 
Sky! 
 
T19:517  DOOM: Knee Deep in the Dead  
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Heritage: HR-42 
GM: Larry Morris & Yellow Worm Gaming Society 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: DOOM 
Description: A containment breach has been detected at the research 
facility on Phobos. A UAC fireteam has been dispatched to recover 
valuable assets and return them with minimal collateral damage or loss 
of resources. What could possibly go wrong?  
 
T19:527  Defending Dumas “ Squadron Action “ Exploding Spaceships  
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-62 
GM: Jessee Scarborough & Pittsburgh Band of Gamers 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: Other, Rules: Exploding Spaceships mod of So 
Convenient for Hewing 
Description: The Colonial Development Union (CDU) is intervening in the 
Musketeer System, after shipments of fusion metals have been 
disrupted by civil unrest.  What would have stayed, a low-level pseudo 
conflict was escalated by ham-handed CDU peace-keeping. The wealth 
from the mining has allowed the Minervans access to high-quality 
military equipment.  Now the CDU must clear Dumas near-space to 
allow the landing of an expeditionary force.  
 
T19:565  The Battle of Isandlwana — Theme Game 
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 9, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-1 
GM: Dave Waxtel & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Men Who Would Be Kings 
Description: The Battle of Isandlwana on January 22, 1879 was the first 
major encounter in the war between the British Empire and the Zulu 
Nation. Eleven days after the British invaded Zululand, a Zulu force of 
some 20,000 warriors attacked a portion of the British main column 
consisting of 1,800 British, colonial, and native troops. Children 
particiption encouraged! 
 
T19:579  Big Truffle in a Little Village  
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-2 
GM: Eric Jacobson & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: Brigade Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Gnome Wars 
Description: In the early days of the Wishing Well War, the only thing 
between the German Gnome war machine and the subjugation of all 
Gnome-Kind were small town militias... and a few friends. Any player 
bringing a painted 320 point unit from Brigade Games Gnomes at War 
line do not need to pre-register. No one under 12 without a playing 
adult.  
 
T19:627  Wolverines: Airfield Strike — Theme Game 
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-72 
GM: Michael Pierce & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Wolverines: Red Dawn (home) 
Description: The Commie invasion continues.  Although you have heard 
rumors of fighting by the US military, the Commies are in control of your 
region.  In the town of Two Wells, Texas, the invaders have established a 
base, including a small air facility.  They have used the airfield to keep 
the region pacified.  Your group of Wolverines plan to assault the 
airfield, destroying infrastructure and aircraft.  In addition, gather any 
supplies you can find.  
 
T19:632  Prussian Assault at Elasshausen-Battle of Froschwiller  
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-73 
GM: Thomas Garnett & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: C&G Light to Computer-Identified Notable 
Command 
Period: Franco-Prussian War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage and Glory 
Description: On 6 August, the French I Corps defended the frontier 
region around the Alisse town of Froschwiller.  At dawn several Prussian 
advance guard brigades probed the French defenses.  Just east of 
Elasshausen, the Prussian 9th Division followed by the 10th Division 
started their "pile-on" assault by using each brigade as it arrived to 
assault the French 1st Division. Young folks 12 and up with an adult 
sponsor (18+) are welcomed to join in. 
 
T19:201  Kunoichi Hime - Strike the Gate! — Theme Game 
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 16, Location: Freedom Foyer: FP-1 
GM: Tom Vielott  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Renaissance, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Ninjutsu! (Home Rules) 
Description: Rumors swirl as the army of Lord Murakami approaches 
Niseoka, a key border castle of Lord Hashimoto's domain. It is almost 
certain that Murakami has sent his daughter, the Princess of Ninjas, 
forward to open a way into the castle. In the castle town, guards watch 
suspiciously as many forces work unseen, trying to pull the result of the 
siege one way or another. When Murakami's army arrives at dawn, who 
can say what it will find... Come for easy rules and a bit of roleplaying 
and intrigue! Also check out the siege proper on Friday at 3pm and 7pm! 
 
T19:194  Baltimores Over Africa  
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-13 
GM: DAVID WINFREE  
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  18 | 69 
 
Sponsor: I-94 Enterprises, Prize: Aircraft minis (unpainted) to MVP of 
each side 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Check Your 6! 
Description: Scenario playtest, North Africa 1943. Escorted Martin 
Baltimores intercepted by Axis fighters. Check Your 6! rules. 1st public 
playtest of this scenario. 
 
T19:210  Otjihinamaparero: The Threatened Flank (German South 
West Africa, 1904)  
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-12 
GM: Roy Jones  
Sponsor: Recreational Conflict, Prize: NONE 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Sword and the Flame (Modified) 
Description: Herero riflemen occupy the formidable natural fortress of 
Otjihinamaparero, with its high rock walls. Schutztruppen and Marines 
launch a flank assault, but the Hereros hold their ground and shower the 
attackers with lead. The Hereros must now counterattack quickly, 
before the Germans can break the morale of the Herero army. From the 
scenario book "The Herero War". More at www.hererowars.com. This 
game is paired with the HMGS War College lecture: Sea Soldiers, Sailors, 
and Schutztruppen: German Troop Types and Tactics in the Herero War. 
 
T19:279  The Battle of Adwalton Moor  
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 2.5 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth: CW-21 
GM: Scott Perry  
Sponsor: Pictors Studio, Prize: All players will receive a painted and 
based ECW command stand. 
Period: Pike & Shot, Scale: 12mm, Rules: Warmaster English Civil War 
Description: In this pivotal battle of the English Civil War, the Royalist 
forces under the Earl of Newcastle were advancing against the forces of 
Lord Fairfax who were retreating.  The latter found a patch of ground 
that seemed defensible and hoped their superior firepower would beat 
back the advantage in both numbers of men and horse that the Royalists 
held.   
The results of the actual battle caused Parliament to call on the Scots for 
aid, ultimately bringing Scottish soldiers into England and turning the 
tide decisively in favour of the forces opposed to the King. This is a 
smaller battle and I anticipate it will go rather quickly.  If it does go 
quickly and the players are interested we can switch sides and play it 
again. 
 
T19:298  Heavy Gear RPG part 1  
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-5 
GM: James Faltum  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: free plastic mini 
Period: SciFi, Scale: Other, Rules: Heavy Gear 4th Edition Roleplaying 
Game 
Description: In the distant future war rages on the planet known as 
Terra Nova.  Piloted robots known as Heavy Gears have become the 
premiere fighting machine of choice. Join the fight for honor or just 
survival. 
Part 1: in TN 1918 (6122 AD), a small band of misfits must fight to 
protect their new home, an oasis tower, in the badlands from 
marauding Rovers. Rules taught and all materials provided. 
 
T19:326  The Battle of Sitka, Alaska, Russian-American Company vs 
Tlingit Tribe  
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-4 
GM: Adam Sharp  
Sponsor: Thomas Hill Wargamers Club & 20Sided Gamified LLC, Prize: 
yes 
Period: 19th Century, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Blood & Steel, Firelock Games 
with House Rule Modifications 
Description: When Russian fur traders entered Alaska in the 1700's, the 
fate of a continent was in question.  Yet it wasn't Spain, France, Britain 
nor the fledgling United States who slowed Russian expansion, but the 
fierce and proud Tlingit tribes of coastal Alaska. The Battle of Sitka, 
1804, is a little known, perhaps never before gamed conflict between 
unique wooden-armored Native Americans and Russian-American 
Company (RAC) fur traders, sailors and native allies. Join us to lead the 
Tlingits, "more frightful than the most hellish devils,"  as they were 
described by the Russians or take command of the RAC under Chief 
Manager Baronov. These two great powers fight to secure critical 
hunting grounds and the future of North America! 
 
T19:267  Battle of Austerlitz  
Thursday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-23 
GM: Steve Fratt  
Sponsor: FrattSpiel Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 6mm, Rules: FrattSpiel - The Victory Is Ours! 
Description: FrattSpiel Games presents its Napoleonic game similar to 
Small Deadly Space [ACW] 1" = 50yds, 1 figure = 25 men, These rules will 
be published in the fall by On Military Matters. Staff Officers serve many 
functions for maneuver, rallying, pushing attacks. Artillery forces units to 
test morale. Close Action dominates combat, driven by Cohesion ratings 
requiring very few charts. Plays more like a War College event - atypical - 
players will feel like they actually watch the battle unfold. For the player 
looking for something innovative. Steve Fratt presents The Victory Is 
Ours! a companion game to his Small Deadly Space ACW game from last 
year. Plays like a War College Event than typical con game. For players 
seeking new approach. 
 
T20:504  CHEYENNE DOWN! — Theme Game 
Thursday, 8:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-14 
GM: Bob Edoo & Night Ravens 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Alien vs Predator 
Description: From Alien Xenomorphs skulking in the shadows, waiting 
for the moment of weakness to pounce on and capture new hosts for 
the brood, to the well-trained Colonial Marines who are geared up with 
state-of-the-art equipment and finally to a mysterious race of brutal 
extra-terrestrial Hunters that the humans call Predators, each Force 
offers a unique set of skills to provide their own diversity to the 
gameplay. Theres no shortage of terror and excitement in Alien vs 
Predator!  
 
T20:557  Into The Darkness: WOT-The Miniatures Game; Battles (What 
if the AXIS powers united?).  
Thursday, 8:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-8 
GM: James Nicholson 3rd & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and 
Gaming Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/100th, Rules: WORLD of TANKS-The 
Miniatures Game and House rules. 
Description: Enemy Spotted!! Feind Entdeckt!! Vrag Zamechen!! The 
World of Tanks: Miniatures Game is an easy to learn, quick play, small 
scale tabletop game. You take command of a Tank Platoon, seeking to 
destroy your opponents tanks and secure victory. WOT-The miniatures 
game; Battles. Is a test of your tank platoon's ability to accomplish its 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  19 | 69 
 
mission to secure victory for your forces!! What if the Axis powers 
united??  
 
T20:656  Into The Darkness: WARHAMMER 40K: DEMO'S: Combat 
Patrol  
Thursday, 8:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-7 
GM: Buford Culver & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and Gaming 
Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: WARHAMMER 40K and House rules. 
Description: A new edition makes planet fall. Ravening aliens strike at a 
desperate Imperium in the new edition of Warhammer 40,000. Discover 
one of the world's most popular miniatures games. Come join us in  
learning this new edition of Warhammer 40,000. All are welcome and all 
materials will be provided.  
 
T20:354  Liberating France - If We Can Get Off The Beach First — 
Theme Game 
Thursday, 8:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 7, Location: Commonwealth: CW-43 
GM: Greg Whitaker  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Simplified for Convention 
Description: D-Day, June 6th '44  - Able Company, 116th Infantry, 29ID, 
can you get off of the beach Dog Green and start the liberation of 
France?  Will some lucky Captain and his men be selected to go find a 
lost Private on June 9th? 
Germans Soldiers of Wilderstandnest 72, can you and the "Atlantic Wall" 
push the "Blue & Grey" back into the sea?  
Come roll lots of dice, push around lots of men, and kick the convention 
off to a rousing good start! No experience needed; the rules are 
simplified for convention play. 
 
T20:323  Trench Wars: The Forgotten Fronts: Attu 1943--An HMGS War 
College Game  
Thursday, 8:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage: HR-12 
GM: Frank Luberti, Jr.  
Sponsor: New York Wargamers Association, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Trench Wars (modified) 
Description: May 1943.  Units of the U.S. 7th Infantry Division landed on 
Attu island.  Waiting for them: elements of the IJA's North Seas Garrison.  
25mm skirmish game.  
Novices, children with adults, rules lawyers and GMs looking for revenge 
welcome. Kid friendly game.  Parent/Child teams welcome.  Rules will be 
taught.  Game sponsored by the HMGS War College. 
 
T20:384  StarForce Commander  
Thursday, 8:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-3 
GM: Chandler Archibald  
Sponsor: Mariner Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: Other, Rules: StarForce Commander 
Description: StarForce Commander is a thrilling game of tactical starship 
combat where every decision counts. Easy to learn, but with tactical 
depth. We’ll have you in full command in 15 minutes. From arming 
weapons to maneuvering and sensor and shield management.  Join us at 
our table for a quick demo or participate in a full battle. Come say hi 
even if the timeslot is full and we’ll fit you in or set up an alternate time 
to play. Don’t miss out on the chance to learn StarForce Commander 
from its designers. Ages 12+. For more info: www.mariner.games 
 
T20:685  ULTIMATE OVERLORD #2: THE LONGEST DAY!  -- D-DAY 80th 
Anniversary — Theme Game 
Thursday, 8:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 18, Location: Freedom A: FA-2 
GM: Peter Panzeri  
Sponsor: MINIATURE BUILDING AUTHORITY  (MBA), Prize: Many Prizes 
from Sponsors, & D-Day-Book to any players in "ALL-5 ULTIMATE 
OVERLORD" Events! 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: "D-DAY 80TH" DIVISION-
LEVEL ROMMEL-RULES by Pete Panzeri: Available to all players FREE 
@Game-End! 
Description: SIX ALLIED DIVISIONS "HIT-THE-BEACH" in NORMANDY at 
UTAH, OMAHA, GOLD, JUNO & SWORD Beaches. Can the 3 American 2 
British & 1 Canadian Divisions survive, get ashore under Heavy Coastal 
battery fire, secure their beachheads and reach airborne forces trying to 
"HOLD UNTIL RELIEVED?"  Or will any of the German 
"static/bodenstÃ¤ndi" defenders stay & fight until Rommel's PANZERS 
arrive & try to "Drive them into the Sea?"  Plan rapid & intense & 
Division-Level attacks in exciting battles w/Inf, armor, arty, air & Naval 
Combat & essential logistics both sides. Starts with "RESPECTS 
RENDERED" to our WW2 VETS. ONE-TIME-ONLY SCENARIO at 
HISTORICON'24: DON'T MISS IT! *ALSO: DON'T MISS Historicon War 
College Presentation: "DISASTER at D-DAY" 5pm Thursday in 
Montgomery House. Hosted DUKE SEIFRIED FOUNDATION. 
 
 
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  20 | 69 
 
  
 
F09:318  The Battle of Nicaea  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FA-4 
GM: Rodney Cain  
Sponsor: Washington Grand Company, Prize: NONE 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Triumph! 
Description: During the first crusade at siege of Nicaea, the Rum Turk 
Sultan attempted to rescue the city by sending a large mounted force.  
This resulted in a three day battle outside the city walls.  Heavy mounted 
knights of the crusaders vs. the swift light cavalry of the Turks will face 
off in the first major battle of the first crusade. This battle will be fought 
using Triumph! Rules for Tabletop Battles Ancient and Medieval.  
Experienced and new players are welcome.  Rules will be taught! 
 
F09:320  The Battle of Issus — Theme Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FA-4 
GM: Brian Peruski  
Sponsor: Washington Grand Company, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Triumph! 
Description: 333 BC Alexander the Great faces off against Darius III in his 
second and most decisive battle against the Persian Empire.   Once again 
Alexander is facing off against a larger Persian force defending a river.  
The battle took place south of the ancient town Issus with the Pinarus 
river in between the armies. This battle will be fought using Triumph! 
Rules for Tabletop Battles Ancient and Medieval.  Experienced and new 
players are welcome.  Rules will be taught! 
 
F09:112  3D PanzerBlitz - German Armored Counterattack on a Russian 
Armored Spearhead 1944  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-12 
GM: Gregory Johnson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Avalon Hill PanzerBlitz 
Description: German Armored Counterattack on a Russian Armored 
Spearhead 1944 
Play Avalon Hill's classic PanzerBlitz in 3D using 3mm (1/600) Oddzial 
Osmy miniatures from picoarmor.com. Beginners welcome.  
 
F09:147  Battle of Montgomery  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 3, Location: Commonwealth: CW-76 
GM: Jeffrey Lower  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: English Civil War, Scale: 15mm, Rules: For King & Parliament 
Description: In September 1644 Parliamentarians captured a Royalist 
ammunition convoy and stowed it at the recently seized Montgomery 
Castle. The recapturing of this powder and the castle drew a union of 
Royalist forces to the area. In response, Parliamentarians gathered in 
defense. On the morning of September 18th, Parliamentarians sent a 
third of their cavalry away to forage for food. Royalists, noting the 
depletion of the castle garrison, marched from their camp, ready to give 
battle. Will the Royalists recapture the castle and their purloined 
powder and ammunition? Not if the Parliamentarians have anything to 
say about it. 
 
F09:195  VSF: Of T-Rex and Lizardmen — Theme Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-4 
GM: Gabriel Landowski  
Sponsor: MHWA, Prize: NONE 
Period: Victorian Science Fiction, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Damned Human 
Race 
Description: When debris from an ancient alien space fleet seeds the 
solar system in 1863, a lot of weird and wonderful things emerge! Take 
part as towering dinosaurs and thundering steam walkers struggle for 
ultimate control while the the colonial powers of Europe play out the 
same old game but with a new twist! MHWA: Kid friendly 
 
F09:227  Prelude to Zulu Dawn — Theme Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: : CW-13 
GM: Edgar Pabon  
Sponsor: Firelock Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Blood & Steel 
Description: Before the fateful events at Isandlwana, a Zulu patrol runs 
into a British picket force. Will Lt. Harford get the chance to report the 
incursion?! Using Blood & Steel, this game will be fun, easy to learn, and 
tactically challenging for both sides. 
 
F09:239  UN Peace Keeping in Chad  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-34 
GM: Patrick McGarrity  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: 3D printed vehicle. 
Period: Modern, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Force on Force 
Description: In South Eastern Chad (2008), Irish Army Ranger Wing 
(ARW) troops are part of a UN Peacekeeping Mission tasked with 
guarding convoys carrying essential supplies, protecting refugee camps, 
and providing long range recon patrols in hostile territory.  Frequent 
incursions by Sudanese rebels from Darfur heighten tensions that result 
in an attempt to ambush a convoy.  Will the convoy cross the table? Sign 
up and find out. This is a 28 mm scale game.  
 
F09:296  War on Terra Nova part 3  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-5 
GM: James Faltum  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: free plastic mini 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 12mm, Rules: Heavy Gear Blitz,  ver 3.1 
Description: In the distant future war rages on the planet known as 
Terra Nova.  Piloted robots known as Heavy Gears have become the 
premiere fighting machine of choice. Join the fight for honor or just 
survival. 
Part 3: in TN 1936 (6133 AD), The Interpolar war begins as the North 
invades the South. Rules taught, and all models provided.  HG Blitz uses 
alternating activation and reaction mechanics. 
 
F09:301  Tanks for the Apocalypse — Theme Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 2 hrs, Players: 7, Location: : GF-4 
GM: Christopher Jachimowicz  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Tanks for the Apocalypse 
(Snarling Badger Studios) 
Description: July 16, 1945. The world's first nuclear explosion sets off a 
concussive wave of fission wiping out 98% of life on Earth. Survivors in 
Lima, Ohio commandeer Sherman tanks from the Lima Locomotive 
Works and use them to protect the town. But they aren't the only ones 
with tanks. Unsavory gangs of survivors have their own tanks, competing 
with each other for Earth's limited resources. Players will pilot one of 
these tanks, destroying opponents' tanks and taking resources for 
themselves. Pilot a Sherman tank competing for resources in 1945 post-
apocalyptic Lima, Ohio. Fast play, easy-to-learn rules. Recommended for 
ages 10 and up. 
 
F09:313  To Hunt the Hutt — Theme Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : GF-3 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  21 | 69 
 
GM: Troy Nowak  
Sponsor: Your Hobby Place, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 25mm, Rules: West End Games Star Wars 
Miniatures Battles 
Description: A team of bounty hunters and Imperial troops have found 
Mennac the Hutt on the backwater world Trendivar.  Help them capture 
her, or help Mennac and her entourage escape to their fortress on Nal 
Hutta.  Learn basic game mechanics and the use of heroes and droids 
playing this official scenario from the 1996 West End Games supplement 
Imperial Entanglements with vintage lead and modern resin 25mm 
miniatures; kids under 14 welcome with a playing adult. No food at the 
table.  
 
F09:356  Ages of Conflict - Battle of Camden  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth: CW-75 
GM: Michael Love  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 18 mm, Rules: Ages of 
Conflict 
Description: In July 1780 Major General Horatio Gates of the 
Continental Army entered South Carolina intent on recapturing the state 
from the British. General Cornwallis learned of Gates's advance 
prompting Cornwallis to march his army out of Charleston to meet the 
enemy. 
The two armies advanced eventually meeting just north of Camden on 
the morning of August 16, 1780.  
 
F09:359  Battle of Cunaxa, 401 BC  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-12 
GM: Bob Bryant  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Might of Arms 
Description: The old king of Persia has died. His sons Artaxerxes and 
Cyrus contend for the throne. Artaxerxes with a superior force of cavalry 
meet Cyrus near the town of Cunaxa, next to the Euphrates River. Cyrus 
has augmented his smaller force of Persians with 13,000 Greek 
mercenaries, the 10,000 of Xenophon fame.  
 
F09:385  StarForce Commander — Theme Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Cheritage Foyer: HF-3 
GM: Patrick Doyle  
Sponsor: Mariner Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: Other, Rules: StarForce Commander 
Description: StarForce Commander is a thrilling game of tactical starship 
combat where every decision counts. Easy to learn, but with tactical 
depth. We’ll have you in full command in 15 minutes. From arming 
weapons to maneuvering and sensor and shield management.  Join us at 
our table for a quick demo or participate in a full battle. Come say hi 
even if the timeslot is full and we’ll fit you in or set up an alternate time 
to play. Don’t miss out on the chance to learn StarForce Commander 
from its designers. Ages 12+. For more info: www.mariner.games 
 
F09:391  Dawn Patrol — Theme Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: : HR-22 
GM: Martin Fenelon  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War I, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Fight for the Skies: Wood 
& Canvas 
Description: Another dawn, another patrol to stop the German recon 
aircraft from getting photographs of British trenches. There are new 
replacements to break in, with only a few veterans to lead them. But 
they have to go up, even it their average survival at the front is only 15 
days. Fast-play air-to-air rules, no experience needed, rules will be 
taught. 
 
F09:397  A New Interpretation for the Battle of Crecy  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: : HR-21 
GM: Mark T.  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Lion Rampant (modfied) 
Description: King Edward III of England invades France with his army, 
and King Philippe of France forms a coalition to do battle. Recent 
research shows the Battle of Crecy was fought in a different location 
than tradition says. Players will face the new situation.  (Rules taught, 12 
and under ok with parent, sign up only one.)  
 
F09:120  Up the Jungle River — Theme Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Commonwealth: CW-74 
GM: Jon Lundberg  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Pulp, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Fistful of Lead 
Description: The trading post has sent curious reports of a tribe that 
trains giant beasts. A peculiar cult has found an artifact that appears to 
have otherworldly powers. The group that returns to civilization with 
proof of these mysteries will be richly rewarded  
 
F09:126  Space Opera 1963 Gone to Ground  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Independence: IN-4 
GM: David Cashin  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: Other, Rules: Full Thrust Vector movement and home 
brew 
Description: During the attack on the Trans-Martian Packet Swiftsure an 
intrepid agent of Triplanetary Insurance was able to place a tracker on 
the Corsairs. But now the bold pursuing crews of the Patrol have lost 
track of the pirates in the Palladian group of asteroids. Each player will 
command one ship. The rules will be taught, but more suitable for 
players familiar with vector and hidden movement. Children under 13 
with parent. 
 
F09:134  Test of Resolve in France  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 1 hrs, Players: 2, Location: Commonwealth:  
GM: David Knight  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Hundred Years War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Resolve: 
Hundred Years War 
Description: Play a complete scenario of a typical continental battle of 
the Hundred Years War. Experience the fun of the the newly released 
Test of Resolve: Hundred Years War rules.  
 
F09:172  Battletech: A Little Larceny with a side of Rescue  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Hickory B: HK-3 
GM: Harold Carfrey  
Sponsor: Catalyst Demo Team, Prize: Battletech Swag 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 1/275 scale, Rules: Battletech 
Description: Hesperus II 3075 Operation Lockjaw 
Troops from the Allied Mercenary Command are raiding a Word of Blake 
Industrial Facility.  The mercenaries are here to not only acquire war 
material, but also to liberate the prisoners being used as slave labor... 
 An up to eight player game with each player controlling 2 combat units. 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  22 | 69 
 
 
 
F09:315  Rumble in the Jungle  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 7, Location: Commonwealth: CW-14 
GM: William Langville  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 28mm, Rules: House rules 
Description: Come to the Belgian Congo and be either the Force 
Publique or an Azande warrior in the struggle for control of the Congo.  
Which side will rescue its civlians and get off the table?  
 
F09:262  Assault on the Pratzen Heights  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-23 
GM: Larry Yakowneko  
Sponsor: FrattSpiel Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 10mm, Rules: FrattNap - Hexed 
Description: FrattSpiel Games presents a hex version of The Victory Is 
Ours! [very similar to Small Deadly Space] 4" hexes = 200yds, beautiful 
WoFun acrylic flats by Peter Dennis. These rules will be published in the 
fall by On Military Matters. Staff officers aid maneuvers, rally, and push 
failed morale for Close Actions. Very few charts, very intuitive. Check out 
Battle of Austerlitz for fuller description. Hex version of The Victory Is 
Ours! 4" hexes = 200yds, beautiful WoFun acrylic flats by Peter Dennis. 
Staff Officers, Cohesion, 6,8,10,12,20 sided dice drive combat. 
 
F09:378  Eagles of Empire Demo Games  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Vendor Booth: Vendor 
Booth 
GM: Matt Fisher  
Sponsor: Your Hobby Place, Prize: NONE 
Period: Franco-Prussian War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Eagles of Empire 
Description: Learn to play the hot skirmish scale, Franco-Prussian War 
miniatures game. Demos take 10 minutes and everything is provided! 
These are at the Your Hobby Place booth in the vendor hall. 
 
F09:413  Wars of Ozz: Learn to Play & Bring and Battle  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-72 
GM: Christopher Palmer & HAWKs 
Sponsor: Old Glory, Prize: NONE 
Period: Horse & Musket Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Wars of Ozz 
Description: Come take part in this battle set in the Horse & Musket 
fantasy world of Ozz.  Various factions, including Munchkins, Winkies, 
and the new Ratavian Pie-Rats, fight for victory in this fast paced and fun 
game.  Also, players are invited to bring their own painted 25-point 
brigades of Old Glory's official Wars of Ozz figures to command, any 
faction; or you can use one of our brigades. Beginners welcome. Rules 
taught. Players under 13 only with a playing adult.  
 
F09:418  Magic and Tech Demo  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-85 
GM: Kevin Fischer & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ultramodern Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Magic and Tech 
Description: A militant group has risen in the countryside of Narata. A 
Mechanized Cavalry Platoon has been dispatched to deal with them 
before they cause great harm and damage in the grasslands. Your 
feedback will be greatly appreciated. Two-player quick-starts will be 
available for those that want one. 
 
F09:425  Learn to Play Wars of Eagles and Empires  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-71 
GM: Buck Surdu & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Wars of Eagles and Empires 
Description: Players command French brigades attempting to force a 
river crossing at a Polish village or the Russian defenders in 1807. Based 
on the popular Wars of Ozz family of rules, Wars of Eagles and Empires 
provides an old-school feel with modern mechanics. The unique 
activation mechanism provides friction while allowing players to 
influence the battle. The reaction test mechanic provides the right level 
of unpredictability.  Wars of Eagles and Empires sets out to prove the 
Napoleonic games can be fun. Rules will be taught.  Younger players 
welcome with a participating adult.  No booze, please. 
 
F09:429  Let's Play Combat Patrol TM - Operation Sea Lion  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-82 
GM: Gregory Priebe & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Combat Patrol TM 
Description: Learn this exciting WWII skirmish rules system by playing 
just a couple turns or a whole game. Rules will be taught by one of the 
supplement authors. Drop in during this session, take control of a squad 
and learn the streamlined mechanics that enable you to fight the battle, 
not the rules. Children are welcome with a participating adult. 
 
F09:434  The Battle of Vitoria  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-83 
GM: David Wood & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Fate of Battle 
Description: On 21 June 1813 a British, Portuguese and Spanish army 
under the Marquess of Wellington broke the French army under King 
Joseph Bonaparte and Marshal Jean-Baptiste Jourdan near Vitoria in 
Spain, eventually leading to victory in the Peninsular War.  This is the 
2nd of 3 versions of the battle, each using a different rule set. Players 
under 13 welcome with a playing adult. 
 
F09:449  The Russo Japanese War: A LWTV Campaign Game 3 — Theme 
Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: : HR-37 
GM: Miles Reidy & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Russo-Japanese War, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Altar of Empires 
Description: Often described as World War Zero, the Russo Japanese 
War was a titanic struggle between a declining European power and an 
emerging Asian one which featured a terrifying glimpse of what WW1 
had instore.  Players will be resolve battles that occur over the course of 
a campaign being played out over the convention. The outcome of the 
table top fighting directly influences the progress of the campaign.  
 
F09:465  The Battle of Acre (1189)  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : HR-47 
GM: Christopher Grau & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: Pendraken, Prize: Yes 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Lion Rampant 
Description: Join Guy de Lusignan and Salah ad-Din as we journey to the 
Battle of Acre in 1189. Almost two years before Richard the Leonheart 
arrived in the Holy Land, the Crusader States besieged the vital port city 
of Acre. Can Saladin lift the siege before more Frankish reinforcements 
arrive? Will King Guy escape the shame of Hattin? You will decide!  
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  23 | 69 
 
 
F09:472  Dawn Raid 21 April 1940  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : HR-57 
GM: Tim Tilson & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Fireball Forward 
Description: The main German Army in Norway thrust northward was 
up the Gudbransdal Valley. To protect their western flank, the 69th 
Infantry Division was ordered to move northwest to secure the Valdres 
valley defended by the Norwegian 4th Infantry Division. The Germans 
occupied the town of Bagn.  A company was detached to the hamlet of 
Bagnesbergene on the hills overlooking the town.  Captain F. W. Rieber-
Mohn, of the Norwegian 4th Division decided this was a good 
opportunity for a Norwegian counterattack on the isolated detachment. 
Will he be able to seize the village and capture the Germans? 
 
F09:488  The Battle of Britain Campaign -1 — Theme Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: : HR-46 
GM: Carl cardozo & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Fire in the Sky 
Description: The Battle of France is over - the Battle of Britain is about 
to begin. In this epic 5 part campaign, climb inside the cockpit for 
massive air battles in the skies above Britain to decide the fate of 
Operation Sealion. Play as The Few of RAF Fighter Commands 11 Group, 
or the elite pilots of the Luftwaffe. The aircraft lost and targets bombed 
carry over from session to session, culminating in the finale, the 
September 15 attack on London!  
 Uses the new WW2 air combat rules Fire in the Sky! 
 
F09:494  The Longest Day:  Those Foccackata Bells - The 505th Airborne 
at St.-Mere-Eglise — Theme Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-11 
GM: Mark Zaslavsky & WAMP 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Bolt Action 2 
Description: Sainte-Mere-Eglise was occupied in June 1944 by Germans 
of the 14th company, 3rd Battalion, Grenadier-Regiment 1058.   Before 
the beach assault on D-Day, the 505th Infantry, 82nd Airborne Division, 
parachute into the area to secure the town and its vital road junction.  
Following the jump and Private Steele [Red Buttons] hangs from the 
church steeple while the church bells ring.  Paratroopers and Grenadiers 
fight a battle to secure the town and roadway. Re-live the battle in the 
movie and see if the paratroopers can accomplish their mission. 
 
F09:511  Harper's Ferry — Theme Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HF-10 
GM: Michael Hopper & DelVal 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Sharpe's Practice 
Description: Sergeant Harper is in command of some local Portuguese 
militia at a ferry crossing near the main road into Portugal. Major 
Doomass received orders from Marshal Massena to find fords along the 
river and probe the allied position. Will the Portuguese hold? Will 
Sharpe return in time to aid his friend before it's too late?  
 
F09:537  JOE HACK Britian 43 AD African Loot the Farms  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage: HR-55 
GM: Joe Swartz & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: JOE HACK 
Description: As the Africans devour the countryside, not only for their 
own provision, but to deny the same resources to the British as well as 
terrorize them, word of the next victims spreads forth and the British 
respond haphazardly from all directions towards the African stampeding 
juggernaught as they try to keep their farms and villages safe. 
Meanwhile, the Africans look to exploit the uncoordinated British 
response. rules taught & minors welcome with adult 
 
F09:546  The Battle of Drewry s Bluff: Eastern Flank  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-44 
GM: Rick Dunn & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Divided Brothers 
Description: After falling back to Bermuda Hundred, General Butler had 
to decide on his next move. He spent May 11th strengthening the 
defensive works across the peninsula, and preparing to move out 
tomorrow. He would advance the entire Army of the James north 
towards Richmond. His objective wasn t to necessarily capture the rebel 
capital, but to make a reconnaissance in force, distract the enemy so 
that Butlers cavalry could slip south and destroy the railroads around 
Petersburg, and to tied down Confederate units so they could not 
reinforce Lee. This a large and fascinating game. The heavy fog at the 
beginning ads a unique twist not often encountered in Civil War battles. 
 
F09:581  You say Senkaku, We say Diaoyu  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Federal Room: FD-1 
GM: Martyn Kelly & Naval Wargamer's Group 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 1:2400th, Rules: Harpoon V 
Description: A few weeks ago, Taiwanese fishermen landed and planted 
a flag on the Senkaku islands.  The Chinese took the opportunity to take 
possession of the islands and start construction of a small military 
outpost.  They set a 25nm exclusion zone enforced by two Coast Guard 
Type 56.  The PLAN is supporting from a distance with a Type 52D and a 
Type 54A.    JMSDF Escort Squadron 6 and the Osumi LST have left 
Sasebo enroute to the islands. Experienced players only. The results of 
the game will impact the amphibious assault of the islands that I will be 
running on Saturday in 20mm. 
 
F09:592  Free State of Jones — Theme Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-27 
GM: Christian Ovsenik & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Sharp Practice 2 
Description: Newton Knight leads his band of deserters and freed slaves 
against a Confederate force who aims to burn the town, kidnap women, 
and steal any forage they can find. Prior experience with Sharp Practice 
is appreciated by the Gamemaster. 
 
F09:597  With Nothing Bigger Than a Bren Gun -  The Defense of the 
Van Limburg Stirum School at the Arnhem Road bridge, September 
18th/19th 1944  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-28 
GM: Edward Harding & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Chain of Command 
Description: From author Naill Cherry- Perhaps one of the best 
examples of fighting against the odds amongst all those that happened 
at Arnhem in September 1944 is the defense of the school at the bridge 
by elements of the 1st Parachute Squadron Royal Engineers and C 
Company of the 3rd Parachute battalion.  Refight some of that action in 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  24 | 69 
 
a Big Chain of Command game, as the British Paras can you hold on to 
the Northeast defense perimeter or as elements of Kampfgrupenn 
Knaust or Kampfgruppen Brinkman can you force the British away from 
the bridge and open the road south.  
 
 
F09:608  Out of Ammunition: God Save the King — Theme Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-24 
GM: John Emmett & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Chain of Command 
Description: Arnhem, Netherlands, 1944: Although successful in 
repelling the early German probing attacks, John Frost's perimeter 
around the Arnhem road bridge's north end continued to shrink. 
German artillery firing over open sights and several Kampfgruppe 
attacks had reduced buildings to ruins with some catching fire. In this 
hypothetical scenario will the South Staffords break out of the 
Oosterbeek Perimeter to bolster Frost's defense, or will the German 
Kampfgruppes finally force the surrender of the British Airborne?  
 
F09:610  The Battle of Bantry Bay 1796  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-17 
GM: Eric Boyle & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Age of Sail, Scale: 1:1000th, Rules: Kiss Me Hardy 
Description: What if the weather had not turned against the French-Irish 
expedition in December 1796? In this scenario the French fleet with 
transports has made it to Bantry Bay but Sir Edward Pellew is rushing to 
cut them off before they can land the troops. Will the Irish rebels have 
French support, or will the Royal Navy stop them yet again? Napoleonic 
naval battle using Too Fat Lardies Kiss Me Hardy rules (modified) and 
1/1000 scale ships.  
 
F09:612  Hollywood Studios Shootout — Theme Game 
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-25 
GM: Joe Otto & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Western, Scale: 28mm, Rules: What A Cowboy 
Description: Return to those thrilling days of yesteryear on an iconic 
Hollywood backlot where famous Western movie and TV actors 
characters are searching to "resurrect their careersâ€  and be the King 
of the Cowboys. Is this the real life? Is this just fantasy? Boy have we got 
an adventure for you!  Quit on the set. Roll cameras. ACTION! 
 
F09:624  1st Bull Run  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-15 
GM: Richard Jaekel & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Pickett's Charge 
Description: The First Battle of Bull Run. The battle was fought on July 
21, 1861. The Union Army was slow in positioning themselves, allowing 
Confederate reinforcements time to arrive by rail. Each side had about 
18,000 poorly trained and poorly led troops.  
 
F09:626  Battle of Nyezane, Anglo-Zulu War, 1879  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Heritage: HR-64 
GM: Gregory Starace & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Gift Certificates from ScaleTree and Scarlet Lancer 
Painting Services 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage & Glory II 
Description: Col Pearsons No 1 Coastal Column is beginning the 
laborious task of fording his wagons of his First Division across the waist 
deep Nyezane River. While some cavalry vedettes are posted for 
security the rest of the command is in a relaxed posture. At 8 am it is 
reported that a small party of Zulus is seen gathering in the hills to the 
North. Surely this is just another small group needing to be chased off so 
that the column can reach its objective,  the outpost at Eshowe. Awards 
donated by ScaleTree - https://www.scaletree.com/ - and Scarlet Lancer 
Painting Services -
https://www.facebook.com/groups/7532824256796018 
 
F09:639  Kennesaw Mountain, 1864 - The Assault on the Dead Angle  
Friday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-74 
GM: Nigel Marsh & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Promotional Gift 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage&GloryII 
American Civil War 
Description: The assault on the Dead Angle at the battle of Kennesaw 
Mountain was fought on 27 June 1864 and was the site of perhaps the 
bloodiest and most chaotic fighting during the entire engagement. Will 
the Confederate defenses hold, or will the pressure of the Union assault 
prevail.  
 
F10:404  Sally Against the Siege — Theme Game 
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-86 
GM: Edward Watts & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Fistful of Lead - Might and Melee 
Description: Brave knights and their retinues sally forth to disrupt their 
besiegers and resupply their castle while the besiegers attempt to rouse 
their sleeping camp. Rules taught at table. 
 
F10:480  War of the Roses: The Battle of Wakefield  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : HR-56 
GM: Mark Fastoso & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Resolve 
Description: Richard, The Duke of York, is hold up in his castle near 
Wakefield waiting reinforcements when one of his foraging parties is 
ambush by Lancastrians!  Standing on the castle walls he sees them in 
peril and orders his men to sortie and save them.  Little does he know 
that Lords Exeter, Somerset, Roos and Clifford are waiting for him!  Fun, 
fast-paced mediaeval game! Come and join the guys from Mark’s Game 
Room 
 
F10:518  Damn The Politicians!  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-42 
GM: Larry Morris & Yellow Worm Gaming Society 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Johnny Reb 3 
Description: After an early snowfall both the Confederates and Union 
forces just want to go into winter camp. But the politicians want action! 
So a battle no general wants, is about to be fought for no good reason. 
New players welcome, Rules taught.  
 
F10:526  Crossing the Sambre  August 1914  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 6 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-62 
GM: Jessee Scarborough & Pittsburgh Band of Gamers 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  25 | 69 
 
Period: World War I, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Breakthrough - Decision in 
Europe 
Description: Leige has fallen, and the German offensive through Belgium 
is underway.  The French Fifth Army moves north to the Sambre, just as 
the Germans approach Namur.   Each player commands a Corps.  
 
F10:528  The Patriot-Games: Guilford Courthouse — Theme Game 
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-51 
GM: John Drye & Pittsburgh Band of Gamers 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 15mm, Rules: ToB Volley 
and Bayonet 
Description: Following the loss at Cowpens in January 1781 General 
Cornwallis decided to pursue the Continentals into North Carolina. The 
resulting battle at Guilford Court House was described as 'the largest 
and most hotly contested action" in the south. The Colonial Army under 
General Greene was a mix of new recruits and continentals. Cornwallis 
force included the cream of the army including guards and grenadiers, 
supported by royal artillery, The Volley and Bayonet  rules allow for a 
recreation of this tide-turning engagement, that actually does bear some 
resemblance to the movie.  
 
F10:530  The Patriot-Games: Guilford Courthouse — Theme Game 
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-61 
GM: John Drye & Pittsburgh Band of Gamers 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 15mm, Rules: ToB Volley 
and Bayonet 
Description: Following the loss at Cowpens in January 1781 General 
Cornwallis decided to pursue the Continentals into North Carolina. The 
resulting battle at Guilford Court House was described as "the largest 
and most hotly contested action" in the south. The Colonial Army under 
General Greene was a mix of new recruits and continentals. Cornwallis 
force included the cream of the army including guards and grenadiers, 
supported by royal artillery, The Volley and Bayonet rules allow for a 
recreation of this tide-turning engagement, that actually does bear some 
resemblance to the movie.  
 
F10:558  Into The Darkness: CLASH OF STEEL (Tabletop Tank Battles): 
Operation Unthinkable: DEMOS  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-8 
GM: James Nicholson & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and 
Gaming Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/100th, Rules: CLASH OF STEEL rules and 
house rules. 
Description: Welcome to Clash of Steel. Its 1948 and the war has started 
again. Based on an Alternative History where the war in Europe finishes 
in 1944 with the surrender of Germany, but restarts just four years later 
in the face of Soviet aggression. Come join us in Gale Force Nine's 'New' 
CLASH OF STEEL (Tabletop tank Battles)  
 
F10:568  Waterloo in Two — Theme Game 
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 2 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-2 
GM: Peter Anderson & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 25mm, Rules: One Hour Wargames variant 
Description: Arguably the most famous battle of history, it was 
celebrated in the 1970 film Waterloo as - The battle that changed the 
face of the world. Can Napoleon defeat Wellington and his Anglo-Allied 
Army before the arrival of Blucher and his Prussians puts the damper on 
the party? Youth ages 11 and up welcome. Walk up, no preregistration, 
no experience needed. Simple, fast rules using a gridded table will be 
taught. Movie quotes will be used for event cards! 
 
F10:573  November 7-11, 1918   All Quiet on the Western Front — 
Theme Game 
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 2 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-3 
GM: Mike Fatovic & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War I, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Trench Wars - modified 
Description: As the Great War drags on into its fourth year, there are 
ongoing talks with the Allied Great Powers. However, your regiment has 
been given orders for one final attack to take place on November 11, 
1918 at 10:45am. Your regiment has been given the task to take the 
front line of enemy trenches in your sector. Will you be able to carry out 
your orders or will your regiment be found in the fields where the 
poppies grow... you decide ! Children ages 13 and up are welcome ! 
 
F10:587  Firebase Airborne - May 1969  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-16 
GM: Liam Harding & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Chain of Command: DMZ 
(modified) 
Description: Early morning of May 13th, 1969. The 6th NVA Regiment 
supported by units of the K-12 Sapper Battalion launched one of the 
Vietnam war's bloodiest assaults on an American firebase. Paratroopers 
of Alpha Co, 2/501st alongside the gunners of Battery C, 2/319th 
Artillery must fight tooth and nail to prevent their positions from being 
overrun and destroyed.  
 
F10:629  Claverton Down, 3 July 1643  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-75 
GM: Richard Mentch & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: C&GII Todd Kauderer Memorial Award 
Period: Pike & Shot, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage & GloryII 
Description: In the early summer of 1643, the Parliamentarian army of 
Sir William Waller has led his Royalist friend Sir Ralph Hopton about in a 
dance of positions as Sir Willaim has attempted to defend Bath. This 
morning a sharp clash of horse led Sir William to withdraw from his 
positions guarding the crossings of the river Avon. He has decided to 
stand here at Claverton Down, but two miles from Bath, determined to 
hold till nightfall.  
 
F10:631  Battle for Quebec 1759  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Heritage: HR-72 
GM: Tom David & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: French & Indian War, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Carnage & Glory 
Description: Recreate the battle for Quebec on the Plains of Abraham in 
September 1759.  Can General Wolfe lead the surrounded British army 
to another victory or will Montcalm gather his forces and force the 
British back into the sea.  
 
F10:634  Prussian Assault on the French Left Flank-Battle of 
Froschwiller  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-73 
GM: Thomas Garnett & Carnage and Glory 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  26 | 69 
 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: G&G Light Pen 
Period: Franco-Prussian War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage and Glory 
Description: By noon on August 6th, the Prussian V Corps detected a 
weakness on the French right flank of their I Corps.  Moving rapidly, the 
Prussian 21st Division supported by corps cavalry attacked the right of 
the French 2nd Division Young Folks 12+ with an adult 18+ are welcome 
 
F10:636  Aspern Essling, May 21 1809  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 8 hrs, Players: 15, Location: Heritage: HR-65 
GM: David Bonk & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage and Glory Napoleonic 
Computer Moderated 
Description: Join us for the recreation of Napoleon's desperate defense 
of the villages of Aspern and Essling in the face of overwhelming odds. 
French players will need to hold on to the villages and protect the 
bridges as the Austrian Army throws itself at the French defenders. The 
villages will occupy each end of a 15' table with hundreds of French and 
Austrian infantry and cavalry maneuvering across the fields.  
 
F10:643  An Early Hastings September 1066  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-63 
GM: jeff ball & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 40mm, Rules: Carnage & Glory 
Description: A break in the weather over the Channel results in Duke 
William landing in England before the harvest when the Saxon army is at 
its largest.  But the Saxons hear of a Viking landing and must eliminate 
the Norman threat quickly, which means giving up some of their 
favorable terrain to force the issue.  How will these factors change the 
Historical result?  
 
F10:646  Battletech - For Future Considerations Part 3  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 5 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-9 
GM: Bob Maine & Battletech 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Battletech - Total Warfare 
Description: After the Clans lost the Great Refusal to the reborn Star 
League, several of the more aggressive clans including the Jade Falcons 
attacked the lightly defended Nova Cat holdings within a week 
indiscriminately destroying civilians and military forces alike. The battles 
were fierce with the Nova Cat capital overrun. As refugees poured 
toward the drop-port from all directions, the southern Falcon force 
pursued their assigned mission to capture key scientist caste personnel. 
All materials, miniatures and dice will be provided. Intermediate to 
experienced players. All materials, miniatures and dice will be provided. 
Intermediate to experienced players and no Players under 15 years old. 
 
F10:657  Into The Darkness: WARHAMMER 40K: Battles  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-7 
GM: Lorenzo O'Branty & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and 
Gaming Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: WARHAMMER 40K and House rules. 
Description: A new edition makes planet fall. Ravening aliens strike at a 
desperate Imperium in the new edition of Warhammer 40,000. Discover 
one of the world's most popular miniatures games. Come join us in  
learning this new edition of Warhammer 40,000. All are welcome and all 
materials will be provided.  
 
F10:667  Zombie  Pirates  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-31 
GM: Don Carter & ODGW 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Age of Piracy, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Mein Zombie 
Description: You are on a small Caribbean isle, when word reaches you 
that the leader of the island needs you r help. His daughter was on a 
tour of the island, when a strange illness broke out. He has received 
word that she is trapped in the village. Can you go and rescue her? After  
a long talk, you find out the illness is an out break of Zombies .  
 
F10:669  Mein Zombie - The Underground  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-41 
GM: Michael Moran & ODGW 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Mein Zombie 
Description: The last couple months living in a walled off community has 
brought about a feeling of normalcy.  But suddenly...  A huge group of 
zombies keep invading the community.  Everyone is on edge and 
tempers are hot.  Where are they coming from? What did we miss. 
There are currently no zombies outside the wall!  Can you find and 
destroy the zombie and where they are coming from? 
Mein Zombie is a fast play, easy to learn zombie killing game.  Come 
have fun and kill a ton of zombies.  New players welcome, rules will be 
taught. 
 
F10:114  Battle of Kosovo Polje 1389  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Hickory B: HK-4 
GM: Jim Mauro  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 15mm, Rules: To The Strongest! 
Description: Serbia fights for its independence as the Serbian Prince 
Lazar leads an allied army of heavy mounted knights against a mobile, 
more flexible Ottoman army led by Sultan Murad.  A Serbian victory will 
halt the Ottoman advance into the heart of Central Europe.  Failure will 
all but ensure the fall of Serbia and further Ottoman encroachment into 
the European heartland. The rules are fast paced, intuitive and easy to 
learn.  An innovative mechanism is used to activate units, potentially 
multiple times to move or fight during the same turn 
 
F10:695  Test of Honour - Shogun and the Last Samurai — Theme Game 
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 24, Location: Freedom Foyer: FP-1 
GM: David Hill  
Sponsor: Things from the Basement, Your Hobby Place Ltd. and the 
Metropolitan Wargamers., Prize: Vendor Discounts 
Period: Samurai, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Honour - Quick Play 
Description: For fans of the recent Shogun series and the less recent 
Last Samurai movie, this is the game for you. Test of Honour is a fun, 
fast-paced 28mm samurai skirmish game that I have further streamlined 
after dozens of convention games and hundreds of players. Don't be 
scared by the high player count, this is really six separate four-player 
scenarios played at the same time, with alternating activations (i.e. your 
turn is every other minute, not hour). With new scenarios, terrain and 
figures from the series and film, honor and glory await! Quick play rules 
(one piece of paper!) will be taught. Kids welcome with accompanying 
adult. All miniatures and materials provided, just bring a fun attitude. 
 
F10:104  Crystallum: Assault on City 31  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-2 
GM: Christopher Masucci  
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  27 | 69 
 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 15mm, Rules: GUARDS second edition (Crystallum 
Armies) 
Description: The wasteland marauder gang known as the Heralds of the 
Apocalypse have amassed forces and seek to invade and loot the P.A.C.A 
corporate facilities at City 31. Take control of the marauders or the 
defenders of corporate interests and decide the fate of City 31. All 
participants will receive a free model.  
 
F10:160  D-Day Assault:  Les Forges — Theme Game 
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-24 
GM: Robert Evans  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 25mm, Rules: One-Hour Skirmish Wargames 
(modified) 
Description: Securing the town of Les Forges and its surrounding fields 
was critical for the glider reinforcements of the 82nd Airborne Division.  
You can lead a small squad of paratroopers as they clear the town or 
command a squad of German troops from the 91st Infantry Division who 
stubbornly resist.  The game will use the One-Hour Skirmish Wargames 
ruleset with some modifications to accommodate six players.  Quick, 
easy to learn card-driven rules with an opportunity for Hollywood 
action.  
 
F10:206  Mission 3301  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Grand Foyer: GF-1 
GM: James Thompson  
Sponsor: I-94, Prize: NONE 
Period: Korean War, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: CY6JA 
Description: On 30 April 1952 VMF-311 was sent to Sunch'on North 
Korea to cut a rail line. Just after dropping their bombs, they were 
jumped by MiG's. The Marines turned into the MiG threat. No one under 
16 without a playing adult 
 
F10:217  Ogre Miniatures - Ceasefire Collapse  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: : GF-2 
GM: Joseph Bloch  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Ogre Miniatures 
Description: A brief ceasefire between Combine and PanEuropean units 
has fallen apart, and you're in the soup. Using the award-winning Ogre 
Miniatures rules by Steve Jackson Games, two teams of two players 
each, forces will be determined by point buy.  
 
F10:327  Ages of Conflict: Dacians vs. Celts!!!  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-4 
GM: Gavine Larwson  
Sponsor: Bad Goblin Games and 20Sided Gamified LLC, Prize: Coupon for 
the Age of Conflict rulebook and token sheet 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Ages of Conflict by Bad Goblin 
Games with house rules 
Description: The Dacians were an ancient cultural group 
contemporaneous with the Romans that lived in the mountains of 
modern-day central Romania. Fearsome in battle, in addition to the 
typical weapons of the age, they carried the falx, a two-handed weapon 
with a curved blade that could cleave shields and limbs with ease. They 
suffered invasions from numerous groups including the Celts from 
central Europe and northern Italy. Will the Dacians and their Sarmatian 
allies repel the invaders?  Will the Celts expand into Dacian lands? Join 
us and find out!  No experience with Ages of Conflict necessary, we’ll 
teach you the game. 
 
F10:328  The Battle of Great Notch- Co-Host of the 20 Sided Gamified 
Podcast  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: :  
GM: Kelly McManus  
Sponsor: 20Sided Gamified LLC, Prize: yes 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Live Free 
or Die by Little Wars TV with house rules 
Description: October, 1780: British Major John Andre is dead and 
American turncoat Benedict Arnold's plot to hand over West Point is in 
shambles. Reeling from this treachery, General George Washington 
maneuvers his army back to his summer encampment at the Dey 
Mansion in what is now Wayne, New Jersey. Here he is shielded by the 
northern end of the Watchung Mountains and the mighty Passaic River. 
This serves as a means for the Commander in Chief to assess his position 
and weigh the options of a British reprisal. He fears that the British will 
do one of three things: Strike out towards Morristown, attack West 
Point, or strike him directly at his headquarters. 
 
F10:353  Mysteries of the Ancients  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Grand Foyer: GF-6 
GM: Gary Ellett  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Home brew - based on Traveller RPG 
rules 
Description: Both the Imperium and the Zhodani have uncovered the 
location of a ship that may have important information concerning the 
Ancients. The ship is a Beowulf class Free Trader and is in a hanger built 
into an asteroid in the Victoria system's planetary belt. The information 
will be in a box somewhere on the ship. You have assembled a small 
team to go in and get the box. You will consider your mission a major 
success if you find the box and leave with your team intact. You know 
that finding anything of value will still be a success. 
 
F10:361  Space Apes Must Die!  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Grand Foyer: GF-5 
GM: John Sears  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Star Schlock 
Description: The Galactic War rages! Striking back against the Space Ape 
invasion, a heroic force of Astroguards have made planetfall on the 
desolate moon Macaca-12. Orbital bombardment has already knocked 
out an ape artillery battery, but can the Astroguards secure the breach 
before Ape reinforcements arrive? A historicallyÂ accurate simulation of 
Z-grade sci-fi using the new Star Schlock rules system. Ages 12+. Rules 
taught at the table. 
 
F10:363  SKYNET IS FALLING — Theme Game 
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-1 
GM: Kyle Schulze  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Xenos Rampant 
Description: The year is 2049, the machines have risen up against 
mankind lead by the AI known as Skynet. After the nuclear apocalypse of 
what was called Judgement Day, one man arrived and taught the human 
race how to fight back against the machines, that man is John Connor. 
Recently the Resistance has shot down a Hunter-Killer drone, and sent a 
team to recover vital information from its data core. There have been no 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  28 | 69 
 
communications from the recon team since, and command fears the 
worst. A rescue mission for the Resistance is led by John Connor himself, 
while Skynet sends its Terminators to recover the drone who will get 
there first?  
 
F10:682  A&A D-DAY "WHAT IF?" SCENARIO C — Theme Game 
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 2 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FA-1 
GM: Peter Panzeri  
Sponsor: MINIATURE BUILDING AUTHORITY  (MBA), Prize: FREE COPY of 
GAME RULES & SCENARIO made available to ALL Participants after 
completion of the game -- PLUS Trophy for "Most-Feared-Enemy" & 
other prizes from our sponsors. 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Modified "Axis-&-Allies D-
Day" CORPS-LEVEL game system ( expanded onto 8-foot Color Terrain 
Blanket) 
Description: WHAT IF" the ALLIES INVADED elsewhere? Or with a 
different plan? "WHAT" IF the GERMANS heeded ROMMEL? Your 
CHANCE to change the fate of D-Day in a small game of the strategic 
battle with 20mm figures/tanks/planes, & played on a 6-foot Color 
Normandy Terrain-map (Blanket).  Maneuver brigades and divisions of 
Infantry, Armor, Artillery, naval & Air Support. Random events, music 
and mayhem. What's not to love? A war Game, a strategy game, a 
Survival game! HOSTED BY THE DUKE SEIFRIED FOUNDATION **ALSO**  
DON'T MISS the Historicon War College Presentation: "DISASTER at D-
DAY" at 5pm Thursday in the "Montgomery House" Lecture Room. 
 
F10:699  Rommel, you MB, I read your book! — Theme Game 
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Commonwealth: CW-11 
GM: Vito Pandolfo  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 6mm, Rules: Battle Field Ops! World War II, 
by 5th Epoch Publishing 
Description: A recreation from the movie 'Patton' with a bit of creative 
license, this will be the conflict as depicted in North Africa. George 
Patton and Erwin Rommel...what a pair! Beginners are welcome. 
 
F10:708  ESR Napoleonics - Learn to Play  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 3.5 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Vendor Hall: ESR 
GM: David Ensteness  
Sponsor: The Wargaming Company, LLC, Prize: Product discount for 
players at the Historicon 2024 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Et sans résultat! Series 3 (ESR 
Napoleonics) 
Description: Players will be acting as one of Napoleon's marshals -  or 
one of their opponents- commanding a corps-sized Force and 
coordinating it against their adversary. ESR emphasizes large scale 
events, not micromanagement. Game play focuses on maneuver and 
management of divisional-sized elements, not tactical decisions. We'll 
be playing at 1"=150 yards, 1' to the mile. Players will be grouped by 
experience level, Quick Reference Guide available for download: 
https://thewargamingcompany.com/esr-players-guide/ 
 
F10:165  Action of 5 November 1813  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 7, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
15&CW-25 
GM: Doug Fisher  
Sponsor: Waterloo Games, Prize: Waterloo Games Gift Certificate 
Period: Age of Sail, Scale: 1:1200th, Rules: Far Distant Ships 
Description: Eight days of strong gale force winds had driven the 
blockading British from their stations off Toulon. On the 5th of 
November, 1813 taking advantage of the absence of blockading forces 
and favorable winds elements of the French fleet had left the harbor of 
Toulon for exercises. When the wind direction suddenly changed the 
returning British saw their chance to cut off the French rear. 
  Fast easy to learn rules that emphasize Fighting Sail era tactics and 
command and control. A sudden shift of wind direction has put 
elements of the French fleet holding exercises in danger of being cut off 
from their home port of Toulon by the returning British blockade. 
 
F10:130  Test of Resolve in Scotland  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 1 hrs, Players: 2, Location: :  
GM: Tim Couper  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Hundred Years War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Resolve: 
Hundred Years War 
Description: Play a complete scenario of a typical battle of the 2nd war 
of Scottish Independence. Experience the fun of the newly released Test 
of Resolve rules. 
 
F10:179  SAIPAN ASSAULT  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-33 
GM: Robert Varga  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Beer and Pretzel Home rules 
Description: The Marines, have landed on Saipan, encountering serious 
Japanese resistance. The well-supplied and prepared estimated 4500 Jap 
troops are resigned to fighting to the last man. Marine squads have 
advanced off the beach moving inland meeting fierce opposition. They 
now face a well-fortified complex and requested immediate tank 
support; their M5 Stuarts are advanced rapidly to their aid. Easy and fun 
game, player flank action directed. 
 
F10:243  Check Your 6 — Theme Game 
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonweath: CW-21 
GM: Gary Archer  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Check Your 6 
Description: Scenario from Scenario book PINING FOR THE FJORDS, Life 
and Death Struggles. 
29th May 1940, Near Narvik Norway 
Run by two of the authors from the book. Hurricanes from 46 squadron 
RAF get to grips with escorted German HE-111's and Bf 110's bombing 
their airfield 
 
F10:244  Check Your 6  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: :  
GM: George Paler  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Check Your 6 
Description: Scenario from Scenario Book PINING FOR THE FJORDS 
Norway 1940 
Run by two of the authors of the book Hurricanes of 46 Squadron RAF 
tackle HE-111s and BF110s bombing their airfield 
 
F10:253  Aerodrome1.1(R) Aerial Combat Game  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 6 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
31 
GM: Richard Heffner  
Sponsor: Stanley F. Kubiak, Prize: Wings & Medals 
Period: World War I, Scale: 1/72nd, Rules: Aerodrome1.1(R) 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  29 | 69 
 
Description: WW1 Aerial Combat - Fast, Fun, Colorful. Earn your Wings 
(Real Medal Wings) like over 570 HMGS gamers over 1000 nationally. 
You must out think your opponents & shoot them down, (Friends-Family 
or someone you don't like-FUN) Games last about 1 hour. Players shoot 
down yield seat to waiting gamers. Youth & Female friendly, Rules Easy 
& taught- Great for first time Gamers Youth 12 & under only with 
agreement between Parent & GM 
 
F10:273  Munsterland Go Home! - Check Your 6!  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Independence: IN-3 
GM: Phil D'Amato  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/300, Rules: Check Your 6! 
Description: The RAF is tasked to destroy the German Blockade Runner 
Munsterland.  263 Squadron was assigned the mission.  Can you send 
the Munsterland home to the depths or will Herman continue ride the 
high seas?  
 
F10:369  Convoy PQ-17  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-43 
GM: Mark Burdette  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Prizes will be given 
Period: World War II, Scale: other, Rules: Halsey 
Description: Historically Convoy PQ-17 was a disaster for the Allies. In 
the face of a threat from the German battleship TIRPITZ they were 
ordered to scatter and were picked off individually by u-boats and 
aircraft. But what if the convoy isn't ordered to scatter? Join Mark 
Burdette and the Asheville Historical Wargamers for this 1942 Arctic 
Convoy battle what-if?  
 
F10:375  Battle of Garigliano, 1503  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-52 
GM: Philip Jones  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Renaissance, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Pike and Shotte (modified) 
Description: An early battle from the Italian Wars: a major victory for 
the Spanish; and the first defeat for the Swiss.  Played at Barrage, 2022, 
this was a crushing win for the French/Swiss!  Can you repeat that feat, 
or will the Spanish triumph again?  
 
F10:248  The Battle of Bunker Hill — Theme Game 
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 5 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-42 
GM: James McGaughey  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 15mm, Rules: British 
Grenadier 
Description: Daybreak June 17, 1775. The British awaken to sounds of 
the Royal Navy firing at a Rebel redoubt built overnight that threatens 
Boston Harbor. British General Gage orders troops to dislodge the 
Rebels. 
Come join Generals Howe, Pigot and Clinton as they set out to teach the 
Rebels a lesson. Or, stand fast with Colonels Prescott, Stark, and Dr. 
Warren to fight for independence. Whatever happens will have lasting 
effects for the rest of the war. 
The Hollywood connection? The Battle of Bunker Hill, 1911 film starring 
produced by Thomas Edison’s studios - the patent holder for motion 
pictures. 
 A quick food/drink break will be taken. 
 
F10:285  A Last Resort of Sorts  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-13 
GM: Bradley Pflugh  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Iron Ivan Modified 
Description: French and allied forces try to hold a small town near the 
Atlantic Coast in late May of 1940 as an aggressive German force pushes 
closer and closer.  Several key intersections and a depot must be kept 
from German hands and it will not be easy! Skirmish level combat in the 
WWII France 1940 period.  Rules have been modified for ease of play 
and player count.  No rules lawyers, disgruntled people or children 
please. 
 
F10:268  Battle of Austerlitz  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-23 
GM: Steve Fratt  
Sponsor: FrattSpiel Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 6mm, Rules: FrattSpiel - The Victory Is Ours! 
Description: FrattSpiel Games presents its Napoleonic game similar to 
Small Deadly Space [ACW] 1" = 50yds, 1 figure = 25 men, These rules will 
be published in the fall by On Military Matters. Staff Officers serve many 
functions for maneuver, rallying, pushing attacks. Artillery forces units to 
test morale. Close Action dominates combat, driven by Cohesion ratings 
requiring very few charts. Plays more like a War College event - atypical - 
players will feel like they actually watch the battle unfold. For the player 
looking for something innovative. Steve Fratt presents The Victory Is 
Ours! a companion game to his Small Deadly Space ACW game from last 
year. Plays like a War College Event than typical con game. For players 
seeking new approach. 
 
F10:311  Pickett's Charge - The War Game — Theme Game 
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
41,51,61 
GM: Jim Purky  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Never Call Retreat 
Description: You have seen the movie Gettysburg and now is your 
chance to replay Pickett's Charge in epic scale with 54mm figures and a 
cast of over 1,200 figures. Will you lead the Confederate charge up 
Cemetery Ridge or stand fast with Winnie Hancock and turn back the 
rebel tide? Victory points allow for either side to win the game. It's good 
ground with easy to learn rules and fast play. Game hosts: Jim Purky and 
Bill Molyneaux 
 
F10:349  The Consortium: Fantasy Adventures in the New World  
Friday, 10:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Vendor Hall: Vendor 
Booth 
GM: Brandi Mullen  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: The MVP will receive a soft cover copy of our 
game book 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Consortium 
Description: Attention Guild Agents! We are seeking able-bodied 
adventurers such as yourselves to investigate an abandoned homestead. 
It's too dangerous in the wilds of the New World for us, but that won't 
be a problem for you, will it? The Ministry of Founding will reward you 
handsomely for your time. Recommended age to play is 13+ 
 
F11:204  Phantoms Over Nam  
Friday, 11:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FA-3 
GM: Bernhard Rauch  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Check Your 6 Jet Age 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  30 | 69 
 
Description: July 13 1966 near the Con Trai Bridge, South of Hanoi. Two 
flights of USN F4s while covering the exit of the last group of A4 Skyhawk 
bombers are suddenly ambushed by several Migs.  
 
F11:235  Zeus VS. Hera, Battle of Greek Gods  
Friday, 11:00:00 AM, 2 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Walnut: WN-1 
GM: Adam Hughes  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Wargods of Olympus 
Description: This is an introductory game for Wargods of Olympus rules 
by Crocodile games. Learn the rules by playing either for the side of Zeus 
through the embodiment of masculine Spartans or Amazons 
manipulated by the goddess Hera to seek revenge against his adultery. 
Rules and mechanics of the game will be taught. 
 
F11:676  The Stelae of Destiny  
Friday, 11:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Hickory A: HK-1 
GM: Richard Rodgers & East Texas Wargamers 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Greek Mythology, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Of Gods & Mortals 
Description: Might Zeus has scattered Stelae all over the Battlefield. 
Whichever Warband that collects the most shall rule the city of Corleus. 
Come out and play Mortal Gods, who will you lead the followers of Hera, 
Zeus or Hades. Might Zeus has scattered Stelae all over the Battlefield. 
Whichever Warband that collects the most shall rule the city of Corleus. 
Come out and play Mortal Gods. 
 
F11:257  The Alamo 1836  
Friday, 11:00:00 AM, 5 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-62 
GM: David Good  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: 19th Century, Scale: 15mm, Rules: The Alamo Ruleser 
Description: Join us the impressive final assault on the famous mission 
in 1:1 true 15mm scale. Join the Texians in their heroic defense or the 
Soldados in their equally heroic assault on the walls of the mission 
complex. Over 800 figures including David Crockett of Tennessee. This 
spectacular game is featured on Little Wars TV. 
 
F11:346  They Came on Like Demons - Stones River 31 December 1862  
Friday, 11:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-23 
GM: Kaleb Dissinger  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Fire & Fury Regimental 
Description: Rosecrans and his Army of the Cumberland is finally 
advancing after much urging; this time towards Murfreesboro. But 
Braxton Bragg, having camped there for a month is once again ready to 
pitch in to the oncoming bluecoats.  
 
F11:390  Tekumel  
Friday, 11:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Hickory A:  
GM: Steve Braun  
Sponsor: Second Saturday Scrum Club, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: To the Strongest! 
Description: Two of Tekumel's most powerful nations skirmish with each 
other to secure a recently uncovered site of the Ancients. Your 
opponent may not be the only danger to your troops!  
 
F11:124  The Mummy — Theme Game 
Friday, 11:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-53 
GM: Shelby Thompson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Victorian Fantasy, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Men Who Would Be 
Kings Modified 
Description: Re-fight the action packed battle scenes from the 1999 film, 
The Mummy. Playable factions will include the French Foreign Legion, 
Bedouin, and a skeleton army. Play in a cinematic recreation of 
Hollywood's The Mummy. Playing as the French Foreign Legion, 
Bedouin, and a skeleton army in 54mm. 
 
F12:216  Sci-Fi engagement with Trilaterum  
Friday, 12:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Walnut: WN-2 
GM: Timothy Colonna  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Trilaterum 
Description: Come play in a meeting engagement on a distant world 
playing in cooperation with other players to recover the recon data that 
has crash-landed on Isitav iV.   
Armies will be provided or you can bring a 500 point Trilaterum army.  
 
F12:214  Operation Crusader the Relief of Tobruk 18 Nov - 30 Dec 1941  
Friday, 12:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
35 
GM: Bryan Leshinskie  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: THE PRIZE IS THE SUPRIZE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Beer and Pretzels Easy 
Peasy Rules Taught in 5 mins. 
Description: The 8th Army Launches an Attack on the dreaded Afrika 
Corp to lift the siege of Tobruk 18 November - 30 December 1941.  All 
are welcomed to play with no one ever turned away.  
 
F12:706  The Vermintide rises  
Friday, 12:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: :  
GM: Eugene Oliver  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Warmaster Revolution 
Description: A massize army of ratmen swarm out to overrun the brave 
defenders of the city of Beuvais. victory is impossible. all you can do is 
hold the line to save as many people as you can. 2k points each high 
elves and Brettonians. 5-6k points of Skaven. 
 
F12:516  Defense of Minsk July 1st 1944  
Friday, 12:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-53 
GM: Robert Schaible & Yellow Worm Gaming Society 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Hail of Fire 
Description: 5th Panzer Division, consisting of Panthers, Pz IVs, and the 
Tigers of sPz.Abt 505 engage in a fierce tank battle  with the 
overwhelming onslaught of Soviet armor from the 29th Tank Corps to 
the North of Minsk, desperate to keep the vital rail lines open.  
 
F13:445  Winter Along the Mohawk  
Friday, 1:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth: CW-73 
GM: Don Hogge & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: French & Indian War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Muskets and 
Tomahawks V2 
Description: In an effort to gain control of the Mohawk Valley before 
winter fully sets in, French forces have planned a daring raid. As the 
British forces are settling in their winter encampments, they plan to 
attack and destroy their supplies - hopefully forcing them to have to 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  31 | 69 
 
retreat. Will the French be successful, or will the British defend their 
position? Gamers under the age of 14 are welcome with an adult. 
 
F13:489  The Battle of Britain Campaign - 2 — Theme Game 
Friday, 1:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: : HR-46 
GM: Carl cardozo & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Fire in the Sky 
Description: The Battle of France is over - the Battle of Britain is about 
to begin. In this epic 5 part campaign, climb inside the cockpit for 
massive air battles in the skies above Britain to decide the fate of 
Operation Sealion. Play as The Few of RAF Fighter Commands 11 Group, 
or the elite pilots of the Luftwaffe. The aircraft lost and targets bombed 
carry over from session to session, culminating in the finale, the 
September 15 attack on London!  
 Uses the new WW2 air combat rules Fire in the Sky! 
 
F13:522  What a Tanker! Berlin  
Friday, 1:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage: HR-52 
GM: Greg Pooler & Yellow Worm Gaming Society 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: What a Tanker 
Description: The Battle of Berlin featured some of the biggest, baddest 
tanks involved in the war. If you ever wondered how they matched up, 
come join the fun! What a Tanker is fast to learn and easy to play. 
Players run individual tanks, fighting it out in a 12x5" ruined Berlin.  
 
F13:531  BRAZEN CHARIOTS  Let the tanks through! — Theme Game 
Friday, 1:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-54 
GM: Adam Wine & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Certificates 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: BRAZEN CHARIOTS Tank 
Battle Game 
Description: Based on the 1953 war movie The Desert Rats. It is April 
1941 and Rommel has pushed the British forces all the way to the 
Egyptian border. Only the fortified city of Tobruk remains in British 
hands. On April 11, Rommel attempts to take Tobruk by storm. Standing 
against them is a green unit of the 9th Australian Infantry. They have 
been ordered to let the advancing panzer pass through and to stop the 
German and Italian infantry.  
 
F13:569  Waterloo in Two — Theme Game 
Friday, 1:00:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-2 
GM: Peter Anderson & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 25mm, Rules: One Hour Wargames variant 
Description: Arguably the most famous battle of history, it was 
celebrated in the 1970 film Waterloo as - The battle that changed the 
face of the world. Can Napoleon defeat Wellington and his Anglo-Allied 
Army before the arrival of Blucher and his Prussians puts the damper on 
the party? Youth ages 11 and up welcome. Walk up, no preregistration, 
no experience needed. Simple, fast rules using a gridded table will be 
taught. Movie quotes will be used for event cards! 
 
F13:575  Return to the Forbidden City  
Friday, 1:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-1 
GM: Mike Lung & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Fistful of Lead Wasteland Warriors 
Description: For generations, the City of Ancients has been feared and 
taboo. No one would go near the place because those who did quickly 
sickened and died horrible deaths. But recently, a few foolhardy souls 
have gone there and survived. They have brought back tales of ancient 
wonders and incredible treasures waiting there for the taking. Are you 
willing to lead your brave band into this devastated post-apocalyptic city 
to gain fabulous riches and fame?  
 
F13:284  Battle of Sajo River  
Friday, 1:00:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Walnut: WN-3 
GM: Mark Stone  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Banneret 
Description: Hungarians versus Mongols in a battle that represents the 
high water mark of the Mongol incursion into Europe. Banneret is a 
stripped down variant of the WRG/Warrior style of rules for pre-
gunpowder warfare.  
 
 
F13:325  The Crystals of Connection  
Friday, 1:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Independence: IN-1 
GM: David DeWitt  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Home 
Description: The Crystals of Connection have remained a mystery for 
centuries. The legend is that more than one wizard suffered loss of 
limbs, or worse, in attempts to bring the crystals together. On the Misty 
Plateau there have been some strange disturbances. Bright flashes, dark 
spots, huge quantities of mist flowing down, more than even in the 
misty time of year. Perhaps the Red Wizard has succeeded in discovering 
the dark secrets of the Crystals.  
 
F13:703  Basic Impetus - Punic Wars  
Friday, 1:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Independence: IN-2 
GM: Steven Holowienko  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Basic Impetus 
Description: Multi-Player participation game for the Punic Wars section 
of Basic Impetus.  Battle between Carthage and the Seleucid Empire. 
Rules, dice and models will be provided.  No experience necessary.  
 
F13:170  The Battle of Bennington 1777  
Friday, 1:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FP-5 
GM: Michael Kelley  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Black 
Powder 
Description: Brunswick Forces from Burgoyne's army try the defend 
themselves against a large force of New Hampshire militia Led by 
General John Stark.  This Historical refight will challenge all players.  
 
F13:293  Naval Battle of Pass Christian  
Friday, 1:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FP-6 
GM: Peter Hogan  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Sail and Steam Navies 
Description: The Ninth Connecticut Infantry is embarked on a punitive 
expedition to the Mississippi port city of Pass Christian on the Gulf coast.  
A Union transport escorted by three gunboats encounters three Rebel 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  32 | 69 
 
gunboats from the Pontchartrain flotilla and stuff happens.  You 
determine what. Under 13 with playing adult. 
 
F13:380  But wait, there's more  
Friday, 1:00:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Independence: IN-5 
GM: William Stec  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 30mm, Rules: Plasma Burns (A fanmade Halo game 
system) 
Description: After crashlanding on a deserted world, survivors of a 
Human vs Covenant ship skirmish converge upon an apparently 
operational comm relay, looking to signal for help.  But when they both 
arrive and prepare to fight over the comm relay, it appears that there 
are Banished forces already present.  Can either side defeat the 
Banished forces and use the comm relay to call for help, or will they 
leave their bones for the scavengers to pick? 
This is a demonstration game of Plasma Burns, a fan-created Halo 30mm 
scale skirmish game, which is still under development. No children under 
10 please.  Children aged 10-12 with playing adult present for the whole 
game is fine. 
 
F13:686  ULTIMATE OVERLORD #3: BREAKOUT -- D-DAY 80th 
Anniversary — Theme Game 
Friday, 1:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 18, Location: Freedom A: FA-2 
GM: Peter Panzeri  
Sponsor: MINIATURE BUILDING AUTHORITY  (MBA), Prize: Players who 
participate in "ALL FIVE Ultimate Overlord Events" will receive a Special 
Award & Free Copy of the Book: OPERATION OVERLORD: D-DAY 1944 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: "D-DAY 80TH" DIVISION-
LEVEL ROMMEL-RULES by Pete Panzeri:  Available to all players FREE 
@Game-End! 
Description: CELEBRATE 80th ANNIVERSARY of D-DAY! Both Operations 
GOODWOOD & COBRA w/Monty's & Patton's Tank Divisions seek a 
beak-out of the Normandy beach-heads to strike deep. The Germans 
must hold Caen, Cherbourg & St. Lo. But can the Germans endure the 
allied air superiority? Can their defenses continue to hold? Can 
Rommel's Panzers "drive them into the sea?" Can both sides manipulate 
their logistical troubles to avoid total disaster? Who'll break first? 
Execute rapid & intense & Division-Level attacks in this exciting battle. 
Game starts with RESPECTS RENDERED to our WW2 VETS. SCENARIO at 
HISTORICON'24: DON'T MISS IT! *ALSO: DON'T MISS Historicon War 
College Presentation: "DISASTER at D-DAY" 5pm Thursday in 
Montgomery House. Hosted by DUKE SEIFRIED FOUNDATION. 
 
F14:105  Crystallum: Assault on City 31  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-2 
GM: Christopher Masucci  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 15mm, Rules: GUARDS second edition (Crystallum 
Armies) 
Description: The wasteland marauder gang known as the Heralds of the 
Apocalypse have amassed forces and seek to invade and loot the P.A.C.A 
corporate facilities at City 31. Take control of the marauders or the 
defenders of corporate interests and decide the fate of City 31. All 
participants will receive a free model.  
 
F14:196  VSF: The Brotherhood of Intelligent Dinosaurs Unite! — 
Theme Game 
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : HF-4 
GM: Gabriel Landowski  
Sponsor: MHWA, Prize: NONE 
Period: Victorian Science Fiction, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Damned Human 
Race 
Description: When debris from an ancient alien space fleet seeds the 
solar system in 1863, a lot of weird and wonderful things emerge! Take 
part as towering dinosaurs and thundering steam walkers struggle for 
ultimate control while the the colonial powers of Europe play out the 
same old game but with a new twist! MHWA: Kid friendly 
 
F14:223  Battle at Ramelle — Theme Game 
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-12 
GM: Jon Moessner  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Fireball Forward 
Description: In the movie "Saving Private Ryan" a squad of US Army 
Rangers joins a group of the 101st Airborne in defense of the town of 
Ramelle against a superior force of German armor and infantry. Re-fight 
this classic movie battle and see if you can change the outcome!  
 
F14:238  Fall Blau  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-11 
GM: Friedrich Helisch  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/72nd, Rules: Panzergrenadier (Avalanche 
Press) for Miniatures. An Unoffical , but Welcomed,Adaptation 
Description: Having played the Panzergrenadier board game for a 
number of years, I have adapted it in a straightforward manner to come 
up with what I think is the best of both worlds. A playable, exciting, and 
halfway realistic, tactical level, miniatures game. In the Spring of 1942, 
the Germans launched their summer offensive, which carried them to 
Stalingrad. This scenario features the Russian and German forces on the 
platoon/battery level. 
 
F14:299  Heavy Gear RPG part 2  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-5 
GM: James Faltum  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: free plastic mini 
Period: SciFi, Scale: Other, Rules: Heavy Gear 4th Edition Roleplaying 
Game 
Description: In the distant future war rages on the planet known as 
Terra Nova.  Piloted robots known as Heavy Gears have become the 
premiere fighting machine of choice. Join the fight for honor or just 
survival. 
Part 2: in TN 1939 (6136 AD), after Peace River was devastated by an 
antimatter bomb the Interpolar War ended. Now vengeful hunters are 
after a certain group of misfits defending a badlands oasis tower over 
accusations of treason and collusion. Rules taught and all materials 
provided. 
 
F14:347  Trailer Park Warlords of the Apocalypse â€“ Monster Truck 
Mishap  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-21 
GM: Michael Stoneburner  
Sponsor: Bad Goblin Games, Prize: Drink Koozie 
Period: Future, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Trailer Park Warlords of the 
Apocalypse 
Description: A monster truck has been abandoned in the Mega Trailer 
Parks and is up for grabs! Unfortunately, the keys are on the collar of the 
former owner's pet, a greased-up pet pig that is now on the loose. The 
pig randomly speeds around the map, making it nearly impossible to get 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  33 | 69 
 
the keys from it. The first team to get the key and stick it in the ignition 
wins.  
 
F14:376  Dastardly Dames of Deadwood — Theme Game 
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Commonwealth: CW-13 
GM: David Partak  
Sponsor: Knuckleduster Miniatures, Prize: Gunfighters Ball prizes 
Period: Western, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Gunfighters Ball 
Description: The women of Deadwood have had enough of the ruffians, 
cowboys, and ne'er-do-wells of the town and if the law won't handle 
them they will.  
Gunfighters Ball is a fast-paced easy-to-learn Wild West shootout game. 
Each player controls a character or two. Women are encouraged to play 
in this game and take up the roles of the femme fatale posse.  
 
F14:709  ESR Napoleonics-  Learn to Play  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 3.5 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Vendor Hall: ESR 
GM: David Ensteness  
Sponsor: The Wargaming Company, LLC, Prize: Product discount for 
players at the Historicon 2024 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Et sans résultat! Series 3 (ESR 
Napoleonics) 
Description: Players will be acting as one of Napoleon's marshals-  or 
one of their opponents-  commanding a corps-sized Force and 
coordinating it against their adversary. ESR emphasizes large scale 
events, not micromanagement. Game play focuses on maneuver and 
management of divisional-sized elements, not tactical decisions. We'll 
be playing at 1"=150 yards, 1' to the mile. Players will be grouped by 
experience level, Quick Reference Guide available for download: 
https://thewargamingcompany.com/esr-players-guide/ 
 
F14:152  Doggerland Hunt - Ice Age in Northern Europe  
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-74 
GM: Will Nesbitt  
Sponsor: Wargame World, Prize: NONE 
Period: Prehistoric, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Doggerland Hunt 
Description: Hunt formidable beasts and defend yourself from rival 
tribes in this exciting fast-play game.  Some players play human hunters 
but others play predators: wolves and saber-toothed cats. Predators 
compete against predators to claim territory, while humans compete 
against humans to bring food back to camp. Exciting, simple prehistoric 
battle game with some interesting twists 
 
F14:168  La Fiere Bridge, No better place to die - Normandy, 6-9 June 
1944  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-22, 
CW-32 
GM: Michael Burch  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Rapid Fire Reloaded 
Description: Can scattered elements of the 82nd Airborne hold the 
crossings on the Merderet River until U.S. forces from Utah Beach arrive, 
or will the grenadiers of the 91st Luftlande Division overrun the 
paratroopers and drive on to Ste. Mere-Eglise? Come to what SLA 
Marshall called, one of the most hotly contested pieces of ground in 
WWII, pick your side and see who prevails. We will compress roughly 
three days of fighting into a four-hour game. Rules will be taught and 
casualties will the high.  
 
 
F14:169  La Fiere Bridge, No better place to die - Normandy, 6-9 June 
1944  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-22, 
CW-32 
GM: John Rockne  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Rapid Fire Reloaded 
Description: Can scattered elements of the 82nd Airborne hold the 
crossings on the Merderet River until U.S. forces from Utah Beach arrive, 
or will the grenadiers of the 91st Luftlande Division overrun the 
paratroopers and drive on to Ste. Mere-Eglise? Come to what SLA 
Marshall called, one of the most hotly contested pieces of ground in 
WWII, pick your side and see who prevails. We will compress roughly 
three days of fighting into a four-hour game. Rules will be taught and 
casualties will the high.  
 
F14:187  Aerodrome(R) 3.0 - Korean War Aerial Combat  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Hickory B: HK-5 
GM: Stanley Kubiak  
Sponsor: Aerodrome(R) Aerial Combat Games, Prize: Wings & Medals 
Period: Modern, Scale: 1/144, Rules: Aerodrome(R) 3.0 -Korean War-Era 
Aerial Combat Game 
Description: U.S. jet aircraft, including F-86 Sabres, are up to counter the 
Mig-15s of North Korea. Fly these aircraft (and perhaps more) in 
simulated air combat using the new Korean War-era version of the 
popular Aerodrome(R) World War 1 and World War 2 aerial combat 
rulesets. Still easy to learn and play, lots of fun. Rules taught, equipment 
provided. Up to 10 players per round; rounds run through allotted time. 
As always, Wings and Medals for Victories and Valor! Spouse- and 
Female-Friendly Game. Under age 15 only with playing adult, previous 
experience or GM permission. 
 
F14:379  Bolt Action Demo Games  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Vendor Hall: YHP 
GM: Matt Fisher  
Sponsor: Your Hobby Place, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Bolt Action 
Description: Come learn the world's most popular World  
War 2 miniatures game! Quick, 10 minute demos and we will have you 
playing Bolt Action! This will be in the Your Hobby Place vendor booth. 
 
F14:350  The Consortium: Fantasy Adventures in the New World  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Vendor Hall: Consort 
GM: Brandi Mullen  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: The MVP will receive a soft cover copy of our 
game book 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Consortium 
Description: Calling all mighty champions! It is time for one of our young 
gentlemen to become a man! We are seeking hearty warriors to 
accompany him in battle and assist him in taking down the nastiest boss 
you can find. As Pursuants, we're sure our reputation precedes us and 
you can rest assured the reward will be worth your while. 
Recommended age to play is 13+ 
 
F15:202  Siege Lord Hashimoto's Castle! — Theme Game 
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Freedom Foyer: FP-1 
GM: Thomas Vielott  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Renaissance, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Siege Swein Forkbeard's Castle 
(Modified) 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  34 | 69 
 
Description: The army of Lord Murakami has arrived at the gates of 
Niseoka, the lynchpin of Lord Hashimoto's western border fortresses. 
Murakami knows that Hashimoto will not be far away - the castle must 
be taken now or or never. The Princess of Ninjas has prepared the way, 
now comes the butcher work of the assault. Heroes will brush their 
name in a calligraphy of blood this day. Easy rules, loud challenges, and 
battle poetry! The follow on to Thursday's cloak and dagger event. 
 
F15:102  Four Musketeers: Return to the Fertile Puffin — Theme Game 
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage: HR-22 
GM: Bill Koff  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Mousquetaires du Roy boardgame 
Period: Age of Reason, Scale: 60mm, Rules: All For One (modified) 
Description: Brawl with the Cardinal's Guards in a tavern somewhere in 
17th century France.  At stake are a small fortune, religious freedom, the 
fate of a nation, and of course, a woman's honor.  Rules based on the 
classic Richard Lester Musketeers films.  **Adult content: players must 
be at least 16 years of age.**  
 
F15:236  Zeus VS. Hera, Battle of Greek Gods  
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Grand Foyer: GF-4 
GM: Adam Hughes  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Wargods of Olympus 
Description: This is an introductory game for Wargods of Olympus rules 
by Crocodile games. Learn the rules by playing either for the side of Zeus 
through the embodiment of masculine Spartans or Amazons 
manipulated by the goddess Hera to seek revenge against his adultery. 
Rules and mechanics of the game will be taught. 
 
F14:411  A Bad Day in Ozz — Theme Game 
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-72 
GM: Mark Morin & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Black Powder Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Wars of Ozz 
Description: Outside of the lands of the Quadlings and the Munchkins, 
invading forces, led by Arella and her Gillikins have come together to 
threaten the peace. Several opposing allied brigades find themselves 
facing off on the plains of Ozz!  Rules will be taught.  All 
miniatures/brigades will be provided for play.    Players under 13 only 
w/a playing adult. Gillikins & allies have come to threaten the peace of 
the Munchkins & Quadlings. Opposing allied brigades face off in Ozz!  
Rules will be taught.  Players under 13 only w/a playing adult. 
 
F14:433  The Battle of Vitoria  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-83 
GM: Eric Schlegel & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Napoleon Takes Action! 
Description: On 21 June 1813 a British, Portuguese and Spanish army 
under the Marquess of Wellington broke the French army under King 
Joseph Bonaparte and Marshal Jean-Baptiste Jourdan near Vitoria in 
Spain, eventually leading to victory in the Peninsular War.  This is the 3rd 
of 3 versions of the battle, each using a different rule set. Players under 
13 welcome with a playing adult. 
 
F14:473  Bitter Fight 28 April 1940  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: : HR-57 
GM: Tim Tilson & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Fireball Forward 
Description: Kampgruppe Pellengahr advanced north through central 
Norway pushing aside 148th Infantry Brigade around Lillehammer and 
continuing north through the Gubrandsdal Valley.  They were delayed 
two days at Kvam.  While that fight was going on, the 1st Bn. Green 
Howards were directed to defend the next choke point at Otta where 
the valley narrows. After an air reconnaissance and ineffective air attack 
at 10:30 a.m. the Germans launched an infantry-armor task force along 
the west side of the river Can the German break though the British road 
block? 
 
F14:481  Defense of Plancenoit  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : HR-56 
GM: Douglas Austin & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Rebels and Patriots (Modified) 
Description: Some of the most intense fighting found at the Battle of 
Waterloo involved the Prussian assault on the village of Plancenoit. Can 
the French Young Guard hold back the Prussian onslaught or will they be 
swept aside? As Napoleon moves from Hollywood to Historicon, come 
join Mark's Game Room and find out! 
 
F14:502  Casablanca meets the Mummy — Theme Game 
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-14 
GM: John Mitchell & TGS Productions 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: 19th Century, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Fistful of Lead, Tales of Horror 
Description: Eva and Rick, after unwittingly awakening the Mummy 
Imhotep, have fled Egypt to Morocco.  But Imhotep has followed them.  
Now with the help of Rick Blaine, they have to get to the train station 
across town.  Vichy police Captain Louie has letters of transit for them to 
take a train from Casablanca to Lisbon Portugal. With the help of some 
friends, they set out.  Will the Mummy and his minions capture Eva? Will 
they make it to the train in time?  Will any of them realize that you can't 
take a train from Casablanca to Lisbon. Find out, in what I call a  Mixed 
up Movie Madness game. 
 
F14:512  Sharp as, Attack! — Theme Game 
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HF-10 
GM: Michael Hopper & DelVal 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Sharpe's Practice 
Description: French Major Doomass led his company to a remote 
Spanish village to forage for food and wine. After the major died 
suddenly, by accident according to his junior officers, the junior officers 
marched their men toward a nearby convent to relieve the priests of 
their church plate. Simultaneously Lieutenant Sharpe was tasked with 
rendezvousing with a Spanish informant at the convent, and escorting 
the agent back to Lord Wellesley's headquarters.  
 
F14:550  Car Wars - Death Race 2074  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-6 
GM: Frank Osborn & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and Gaming 
Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Future, Scale: 12mm, Rules: Car Wars 6th Edition and House 
rules. 
Description: Hit and run driving is no longer a felony, it's the national 
sport! Score points for reaching checkpoints. Score even more points for 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  35 | 69 
 
"soft" targets. Who will win this year's race? Who cares as long as blood 
is spilled on the highway! Rules will be taught.  
 
F14:559  Into The Darkness: CLASH OF STEEL (Tabletop Tank Battles): 
Operation Unthinkable: DEMOS  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-8 
GM: James Nicholson & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and 
Gaming Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/100th, Rules: CLASH OF STEEL rules and 
house rules. 
Description: Welcome to Clash of Steel. Its 1948 and the war has started 
again. Based on an Alternative History where the war in Europe finishes 
in 1944 with the surrender of Germany, but restarts just four years later 
in the face of Soviet aggression. Come join us in Gale Force Nine's 'New' 
CLASH OF STEEL (Tabletop tank Battles)  
 
F14:574  November 7-11, 1918   All Quiet on the Western Front — 
Theme Game 
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-3 
GM: Mike Fatovic & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War I, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Trench Wars - modified 
Description: As the Great War drags on into its fourth year, there are 
ongoing talks with the Allied Great Powers. However, your regiment has 
been given orders for one final attack to take place on November 11, 
1918 at 10:45am. Your regiment has been given the task to take the 
front line of enemy trenches in your sector. Will you be able to carry out 
your orders or will your regiment be found in the fields where the 
poppies grow... you decide ! Children ages 13 and up are welcome ! 
 
F14:580  Pearl's Revenge:  Task Force 1 in Action  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Federal Room: FD-2 
GM: Mitchell King & Naval Wargamer's Group 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:2400th, Rules: Seekrieg 5 
Description: Task Force 1, including Pearl Harbor survivors Pennsylvania, 
Maryland and Tennessee (with more friends) intercepts the Attu Assault 
Force supported by four older Japanese battleships of the Combined 
Fleets Guard Force.  The action takes place 3 June  1942 in heavy seas 
and poor and the variable visibility that makes the northern Pacific 
notorious.  This action takes place concurrent with the Battle of Midway 
and the bombing of Dutch Harbor by the Japanese. Experienced players 
preferred but the rules will be taught as necessary.  The hit results for 
gunfire and torpedoes will be moderated by computer, based on the 
Seekrieg 5 rules and tables. 
 
F14:585  The Battle of Moon Sound — Theme Game 
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 13, Location: Federal Room: FD-1 
GM: Chris Carlson & Naval Wargamer's Group 
Sponsor: Admiralty Trilogy Group, Prize: Gift Certificate 
Period: World War I, Scale: 1:2400th, Rules: Fear God and Dread Nought 
Description: Using sites and period equipment from the actual battle, 
the movie Moonzund (1988) presents battle scenes reflecting the World 
War I battle of Moon Sound which was the culmination of the German 
offensive Operation Albion. As the movie portrays, despite internal 
political upheaval and military churn from defeats on land, the Russian 
Navy puts up a valiant fight against the German Navy in the Baltic Sea. 
Join the Admiralty Trilogy as we present a re-run of the Battle of Moon 
Sound.  
 
F14:588  Firebase Airborne - May 1969  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-16 
GM: Liam Harding & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Chain of Command: DMZ 
(modified) 
Description: Early morning of May 13th, 1969. The 6th NVA Regiment 
supported by units of the K-12 Sapper Battalion launched one of the 
Vietnam war's bloodiest assaults on an American firebase. Paratroopers 
of Alpha Co, 2/501st alongside the gunners of Battery C, 2/319th 
Artillery must fight tooth and nail to prevent their positions from being 
overrun and destroyed.  
 
F14:598  With Nothing Bigger Than a Bren Gun -  The Defense of the 
Van Limburg Stirum School at the Arnhem Road bridge, September 
18th/19th 1944  
Friday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-28 
GM: Edward Harding & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Chain of Command 
Description: From author Naill Cherry- Perhaps one of the best 
examples of fighting against the odds amongst all those that happened 
at Arnhem in September 1944 is the defense of the school at the bridge 
by elements of the 1st Parachute Squadron Royal Engineers and C 
Company of the 3rd Parachute battalion.  Refight some of that action in 
a Big Chain of Command game, as the British Paras can you hold on to 
the Northeast defense perimeter or as elements of Kampfgrupenn 
Knaust or Kampfgruppen Brinkman can you force the British away from 
the bridge and open the road south.  
 
F15:402  The Falcon Has Landed  
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-82 
GM: Duncan Adams & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Combat Patrol 
Description: A Luftwaffe photo recon plane has been shot down over 
southern England and is hiding out near a small village. The intel they 
hold is invaluable, so their fate cannot be left to chance. To make sure 
that the Reich gets them home (or that the Allies do not get them) an 
elaborate plan has been devised to recover them. By coincidence, 
Princess Elizabeth, Auxiliary Territorial Service unit has just been 
transferred to the same village. Will young Bess be a hero or a target of 
opportunity?  
 
F15:421  Jungle River Patrol  
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-85 
GM: Kevin Fischer & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Mobile Suit Gundam: The Gravity 
Front 
Description: The Principality of Zeon have been active near the large 
river in the jungle. Can the Earth Federation deal with the feared mobile 
suits with their own? Who will survive?  
 
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  36 | 69 
 
F15:450  The Russo Japanese War: A LWTV Campaign Game 4 — Theme 
Game 
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: : HR-37 
GM: Miles Reidy & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Russo-Japanese War, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Altar of Empires 
Description: Often described as World War Zero, the Russo Japanese 
War was a titanic struggle between a declining European power and an 
emerging Asian one which featured a terrifying glimpse of what WW1 
had instore.  Players will be resolve battles that occur over the course of 
a campaign being played out over the convention. The outcome of the 
table top fighting directly influences the progress of the campaign.  
 
F15:464  The Battle of Actium — Theme Game 
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: : HR-47 
GM: Greg Wagman & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 1:1200th, Rules: Hail Agrippa 
Description: Refight the most iconic, decisive naval battle in Roman 
history with colorful, beautifully painted 1/1200 fleets. The game is 
played with Hail Agrippa, a simplified naval version of the popular Hail 
Caesar rules. Rules will be taught! Players have the opportunity to make 
pre-game "what if" decisions that could reshape the battle.  
 
F15:500  Zulu Dawn at Isandlwana — Theme Game 
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-11 
GM: Walt Siko & WAMP 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Zulu Dawn - Home Rules 
Description: South Africa, 22 January 1879. Lord Chelmsford is 
determined to strike a decisive blow against the force of Zulu King, 
Cetshwayo. Chelmsford has chosen to split his force as he sets out to 
engage the Zulu. After Chelmsfords departure Colonel Henry Pulleine 
and Colonel Anthony Dunford have been left in command of the base 
camp. Colonel Pulleine has received word that a large body of Zulu 
warriors have been sighted and are moving in force towards his position. 
He is confident that the men of the 24th Foot and their allies can easily 
deter any attack from poorly armed native tribesmen.  
 
F15:547  The Wilderness: Saunders Field  
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-44 
GM: Rick Dunn & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Divided Brothers 
Description: The Overland Campaign of 1864 began on the evening of 
May 3rd when the Army of the Potomac left its winter camps and 
marched south towards Richmond.  Grant  s intentions in mind:   If any 
opportunity presents itself of pitching into a part of Lee's army, do so 
without giving time for disposition. But General Lee wasn t going to 
allow him that luxury. This a large and fascinating game. The heavy fog 
at the beginning ads a unique twist not often encountered in Civil War 
battles. 
 
F15:590  Poorly clothed, worse fed, and seldom paid - The Mexican 
War with Sharp Practice  
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-27 
GM: Michael Ovsenik & LARD America 
Sponsor: Goonhammer, Prize: NONE 
Period: Mexican War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Sharp Practice 
Description: Often overlooked as just an education for Civil War officers, 
the Mexican - American War is a very interesting conflict to research and 
game. The Mexican army had soldiers who were devoted but ill led and 
poorly equipped. American regulars were well equipped and trained and 
able to take on forces many times their own size. This game will use 
Sharp Practice to showcase a small engagement in Mexico between US  
regulars and Mexican forces. Have a great time playing the period!  
 
F15:594  Let No One Prefer Hunger to the Sword  
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-25 
GM: Mark Huml & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Strength and Honour 
Description: October, 42 BCE: Brutus and Cassius, the assassins of 
Caesar, have consolidated their position in the East and are marching on 
Italy to restore the Republic. Antony and Octavian, successors to Caesar, 
have moved their forces to meet the Liberators at Philippi in Macedonia. 
36 legions have been concentrated beside 30,000 horsemen and 
numerous auxiliaries; the auspices have been read, and the lustrations 
performed. From one camp the watchword is: Liberty! From the other: 
Avenge Caesar! The fate of Rome hangs in the balance.  
 
F15:602  The Road to Ambleve — Theme Game 
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-15 
GM: Eric Turner & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:48th, Rules: What A Tanker 
Description: We take that dog of a movie from 1965, "Battle of the 
Bulge", and plop it down in the middle of Historicon using Too Fat 
Lardies rules. A game, based on a movie, based on a real battle. What 
could go wrong? Ability to sing the Panzerlied not required. 
 
F15:613  Red Devils/Green Devils  
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-17 
GM: Joseph McGrath & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Bragging Rights! 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Chain of Command 
Description: Sicily, 1943, Operation Fustian: the capture of Primosole 
Bridge.  British paras "Red Devils" dropped onto the bridge overnight 
and wrested control from its Italian defenders.  Now, a hastily-
assembled kampfgruppe of Falschirmjagers (Green Devils) and armor 
support has rushed onto the scene to take it back. Can the Paras hold 
out until their relief column arrives? Can the FJs close with the enemy 
before the royal Navy's guns come to bear?  Only YOU can decide the 
outcome! New Chain of Command players welcome - rules will be 
taught.  Kids can play with accompanying grown-up. Emphasis is on fun 
& camaraderie! 
 
F15:658  Into The Darkness: WARHAMMER 40K: Battles  
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-7 
GM: James Harvey & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and Gaming 
Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: WARHAMMER 40K and House rules. 
Description: A new edition makes planet fall. Ravening aliens strike at a 
desperate Imperium in the new edition of Warhammer 40,000. Discover 
one of the world's most popular miniatures games. Come join us in  
learning this new edition of Warhammer 40,000. All are welcome and all 
materials will be provided.  
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  37 | 69 
 
F15:668  Zombie  Pirates  
Friday, 3:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-31 
GM: Don Carter & ODGW 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Age of Piracy, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Mein Zombie 
Description: You are on a small Caribbean isle, when word reaches you 
that the leader of the island needs your help. His daughter was on a tour 
of the island, when  a strange illness broke out. He has received that she 
is trapped in the village. Can you go and save her? After a long talk , you 
find out that the illness is an outbreak of Zombies  
 
 
F16:272  Waterloo:  d'Erlon's Assault, June 18, 1815 — Theme Game 
Friday, 4:00:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-63 
GM: Timothy Wilson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 15mm, Rules: General de Brigade 
Description: After allowing time for the ground to dry following 
torrential rains on the 17th, the French are attacking the Anglo-Allies at 
Mont Saint Jean.  Napoleon has ordered General d'Erlon, commander of 
the French I Corps, to launch a sledgehammer attack against the Allied 
center left.  The French reserve artillery have been bombarding the 
Allied center since 1pm -but most of them are on the reverse slope and 
cannot be seen.   
General d'Erlon orders his divisions forward to sweep away Wellington's 
"infamous army"   Can you do better than history and break the Allied 
position?  Find out! 
 
F16:191  Fritz vs Brits  
Friday, 4:00:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-75 
GM: Tod Kershner  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: The right to take the next breath 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/72nd, Rules: Wargaming World War Two: 
101 
Description: A fast moving tank heavy 1944 battle in Normandy 
between the British and the Germans.  Rules are a miniatures version of 
the Avalon Hill classic "Panzer Leader" on a hex grid.  Easy to learn.  
 
F16:308  The 13th Warrior — Theme Game 
Friday, 4:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-76 
GM: Erik Johnson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Dark Ages, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Ravenfeast by Littlewars 
Description: Can the biggest box office bomb of 1999 make a great 
Historicon game? In this game of 28mm Viking adventure, follow 
explorer Ahmad ibn Fadlan (Antonio Banderas) as he joins forces with 
Rus Vikings to defeat the cannibal Wendol tribe. Based on the novel 
Eaters of the Dead (inspired by Ahmad’s historical accounts and 
Beowulf), players control 13 heroes in this cooperative game. Uses 
Ravenfeast by LittleWars: fast-play rules are taught and all are welcome. 
Presented by the Union Gang gaming club.  
 
F16:364  SKYNET IS FALLING — Theme Game 
Friday, 4:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-1 
GM: Kyle Schulze  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Xenos Rampant 
Description: The year is 2049, the machines have risen up against 
mankind lead by the AI known as Skynet. After the nuclear apocalypse of 
what was called Judgement Day, one man arrived and taught the human 
race how to fight back against the machines, that man is John Connor. 
Recently the Resistance has shot down a Hunter-Killer drone, and sent a 
team to recover vital information from its data core. There have been no 
communications from the recon team since, and command fears the 
worst. A rescue mission for the Resistance is led by John Connor himself, 
while Skynet sends its Terminators to recover the drone who will get 
there first?  
 
F16:250  Waterloo:  d'Erlon's Assault June 18, 1815 — Theme Game 
Friday, 4:00:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-63 
GM: Timothy Wilson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 15mm, Rules: General de Brigade 
Description: After allowing time for the ground to dry following 
torrential rains on the 17th, the French are attacking the Anglo-Allies at 
Mont Saint Jean.  Napoleon has ordered General d'Erlon, commander of 
the French I Corps, to launch a sledgehammer attack against the Allied 
center left.  The French reserve artillery have been bombarding the 
Allied center since 1pm -but most of them are on the reverse slope and 
cannot be seen.   
General d'Erlon orders his divisions forward to sweep away Wellington's 
"infamous army"   Can you do better than history and break the Allied 
position?  Find out! 
 Am planning to run this game Friday afternoon/evening and Saturday 
morning.  Would like to keep the same table so I can leave the terrain 
set up. 
 
F16:381  But wait, there's more  
Friday, 4:00:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Independence: IN-5 
GM: William Stec  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 30mm, Rules: Plasma Burns (A fanmade Halo game 
system) 
Description: After crashlanding on a deserted world, survivors of a 
Human vs Covenant ship skirmish converge upon an apparently 
operational comm relay, looking to signal for help.  But when they both 
arrive and prepare to fight over the comm relay, it appears that there 
are Banished forces already present.  Can either side defeat the 
Banished forces and use the comm relay to call for help, or will they 
leave their bones for the scavengers to pick? 
This is a demonstration game of Plasma Burns, a fan-created Halo 30mm 
scale skirmish game, which is still under development. No children under 
10 please.  Children aged 10-12 with playing adult present for the whole 
game is fine. 
 
F16:222  Battle of Germantown  
Friday, 4:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-43 
GM: Stan Oien  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 54mm, Rules: 
Commands and Colors Tricorn 
Description: Its October 4 1777, and Washington has a bold plan to 
surprise the British forces camped outside of Philadelphia.   
Epic 11x20 Hex format  
 
F16:286  Welcome to Mos Vegas, now get out!  
Friday, 4:00:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Indepedanc: IN-4 
GM: Sean Conlon  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 15mm, Rules: What a Tanker Modified 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  38 | 69 
 
Description: Imperial forces are moving heavy armored units into Mos 
Vegas. The Rebel Alliance has mustered what they can in an attempt to 
counter the Empire. Fight for peace and order throughout the galaxy, or 
for freedom from tyranny, or scum and villainy. A furious space-tank 
battle in the streets of this scenic desert spaceport. No children under 
16, rules lawyers, or grumps, please. 
 
F16:570  Waterloo in Two — Theme Game 
Friday, 4:00:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-2 
GM: Peter Anderson & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 25mm, Rules: One Hour Wargames variant 
Description: Arguably the most famous battle of history, it was 
celebrated in the 1970 film Waterloo as - The battle that changed the 
face of the world. Can Napoleon defeat Wellington and his Anglo-Allied 
Army before the arrival of Blucher and his Prussians puts the damper on 
the party? Youth ages 11 and up welcome. Walk up, no preregistration, 
no experience needed. Simple, fast rules using a gridded table will be 
taught. Movie quotes will be used for event cards! 
 
F16:640  Kennesaw Mountain, 1864 - The Assault on the Dead Angle  
Friday, 4:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-74 
GM: Nigel Marsh & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Promotional Gift 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage&GloryII 
American Civil War 
Description: The assault on the Dead Angle at the battle of Kennesaw 
Mountain was fought on 27 June 1864 and was the site of perhaps the 
bloodiest and most chaotic fighting during the entire engagement. Will 
the Confederate defenses hold, or will the pressure of the Union assault 
prevail.  
 
F16:670  Mein Zombie - The Sewers  
Friday, 4:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-41 
GM: Michael Moran & ODGW 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Mein Zombie 
Description: The last couple months living in a walled off community has 
brought about a feeling of normalcy.  But suddenly...  A huge group of 
zombies keep invading the community.  Everyone is on edge and 
tempers are hot.  Where are they coming from? What did we miss. 
There are currently no zombies outside the wall!  Can you find and 
destroy the zombie and where they are coming from? 
Mein Zombie is a fast play, easy to learn zombie killing game.  Come 
have fun and kill a ton of zombies.  New players welcome, rules will be 
taught.  
 
F17:621  Le Mesnil Herman: George Wilson and Operation COBRA  
Friday, 5:00:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-24 
GM: John Stapleton & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: (Big) Chain of Command 
Description: On the morning of 26 July 1944, Combat Command A (CCA) 
of the 2nd Armored Division crossed the line of departure marking its 
employment in Operation COBRA.  George Wilson, an infantry platoon 
leader in CCA had very nearly reached CCA's final objective on the first 
day.  Now on the morning of 27 July, Wilson and E Company 22nd 
Infantry are poised to seize their final day one objective, the crossroad 
town of Le Mesnil Herman. Can Wilson and CCA capture their objective?  
 
F17:645  Invasion of France - 1814  
Friday, 5:00:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-73 
GM: John Snead & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage & Glory II 
Description: An ahistorical battle set in February, 1814. French and 
some allied troops against the Russians. Will the Guard show up? Let's 
see what happens!  
 
F17:652  Battletech - Mystery at Wayside 531  
Friday, 5:00:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-9 
GM: Jeremy Lopez & Battletech 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 6mm, Rules: Total Warfare 
Description: It's June 3074 and SaKhan Connor Rood has arrived at 
Waypoint 531 to take charge of the supplies and relieve the clusters left 
there for defense. Instead they find intruders looting the Cache! All 
materials, miniatures and dice will be provided. Intermediate to 
experienced players and no Players under 15 years old. 
 
F17:663  Sword, Gold, Juno British D-Day — Theme Game 
Friday, 5:00:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 7, Location: Heritage: HR-71 
GM: Thomas Harris & Pittsburgh Band of Gamers 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Breakthrough 
Description: In the early hours of June 6, !944 the vast allied armada 
approached the French coast.  The British owned three beaches and an 
airborne drop zone.  Will the Germans defending the beachhead be able 
to stop the overwealming Allied wave.   21st Panzer and the 12th SS 
division will be racing to plug any holes.   Come play Frank Chadwick's 
soon to be publised WWII game Breakthrough.  
 
 
F17:175  Bataan The Game — Theme Game 
Friday, 5:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth: CW-21 
GM: Roxanne Patton  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Disposable Heroes 
Description: You've seen the movie! Now play the game! Staring Robert 
Taylor as Sgt. Bill Dane 31st Infantry, Thomas Mitchell as Cpl. Jake 
Feingold 4th Chemical Coy, Lloyd Nolan as Cpl Barney Todd 26th Cavalry, 
Robert Walker as Musician 2nd Leonard Purckett, and Desi Arnez as Pvt. 
Felix 194th Tank Bn. A mixed squad of U.S. and Filipinos is given the 
mission of holding back the Japanese 62nd Reg't advance over a viaduct 
bridge at the foot of a mountain on the Bataan peninsula. Not suitable 
for children under 18. 
 
F17:258  The Alamo 1836  
Friday, 5:00:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-62 
GM: David Good  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: 19th Century, Scale: 15mm, Rules: The Alamo Ruleser 
Description: Join us for this impressive final assault on the famous 
mission in1:1 true 15mm scale. Join the Texians in their heroic defense 
or thr Soldados in their equally heroic assault on the walls of the mission 
complex. Over 800 figures including David Crockett of Tennessee. This 
specatular game is featured on Little Wars TV. 
 
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  39 | 69 
 
F17:100  Red Oktober Factory Assault  
Friday, 5:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-24 
GM: Kris Johnson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Yes, Warlord Games 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Bolt Action v.2 
Description: It's October 1942 and the German 6th Army is battling to 
complete their conquest of Stalingrad by capturing the Red Oktober 
Steel Plant. The Soviet 39th Guards Division has turned the enormous 
Martenovskii Shop into a veritable fortress. The Wehrmacht's 79th 
Infantry Division, supported by panzers and Jager troops, seek to wrest 
control from the outnumbered Soviet defenders. Bolt Action is fast-
paced and easy to learn, fun for beginners and veterans. Players under 
14 welcome with an adult. 
 
F18:276  Roman Circus III  
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 16, Location: Freedom Foyer: FP-2 
GM: Gordon Andrews  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Roman Circus III 
Description: Step into the arena and mount your chariot to compete in 
the spectacle that is Roman Circus III. Speed, agility, master of the whip 
or all out ramming are the tools of your trade!  Roman chariot racing at 
its finest! 5 Guys and a Lawyer who brought you the ridiculously large 
Gangster game and 55 Days at Peking 
 
F18:106  Crystallum: Assault on City 31  
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-2 
GM: Christopher Masucci  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 15mm, Rules: GUARDS second edition (Crystallum 
Armies) 
Description: The wasteland marauder gang known as the Heralds of the 
Apocalypse have amassed forces and seek to invade and loot the P.A.C.A 
corporate facilities at City 31. Take control of the marauders or the 
defenders of corporate interests and decide the fate of City 31. All 
participants will receive a free model.  
 
F18:372  Hell at RP#1 — Theme Game 
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Grand Foyer: GF-1 
GM: Martin Fenelon  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Fight for the Skies: 
Kamikaze 1946 
Description: The size and ferocity of Japanese kamikaze attacks off 
Okinawa came as a shock to the US Navy. USS Bush (DD-529) at Radar 
Picket Station #1 had been crippled. Aircraft have been rushed to the 
scene to save her from the next attack wave. Fast play air-to-air combat. 
No experience needed, rules will be taught. 
 
F18:386  StarForce Commander  
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-3 
GM: Chandler Archibald  
Sponsor: Mariner Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: Other, Rules: StarForce Commander 
Description: StarForce Commander is a thrilling game of tactical starship 
combat where every decision counts. Easy to learn, but with tactical 
depth. We’ll have you in full command in 15 minutes. From arming 
weapons to maneuvering and sensor and shield management.  Join us at 
our table for a quick demo or participate in a full battle. Come say hi 
even if the timeslot is full and we’ll fit you in or set up an alternate time 
to play. Don’t miss out on the chance to learn StarForce Commander 
from its designers. Ages 12+. For more info: www.mariner.games 
 
F18:183  Action of 5 November 1813  
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 7, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
15&CW-25 
GM: Marie Alcock-Hubley  
Sponsor: Waterloo Games, Prize: Waterloo Game Gift Certificate 
Period: Age of Sail, Scale: 1:1200th, Rules: Far Distant Ships 
Description: Eight days of strong gale force winds had driven the 
blockading British from their stations off Toulon. On the 5th of 
November, 1813 taking advantage of the absence of blockading forces 
and favorable winds elements of the French fleet had left the harbor of 
Toulon for exercises. â€¦when the wind direction suddenly changed the 
returning British saw their chance to cut off the French rear. 
  Fast easy to learn rules that emphasize Fighting Sail era tactics and 
command and control. A sudden shift of wind direction has put 
elements of the French fleet holding exercises in danger of being cut off 
from their home port of Toulon by the returning British blockade. 
 
 
F18:256  Sons of the Desert - French Foreign Legion  
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Independence: IN-3 
GM: Bill Seaman  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Men Who Would Be Kings 
Description: French legionnaires defend a desert fort and nearby oasis 
along the Algerian-Moroccan border!  Can they hold out until a relief 
column arrives?  
 
 
F18:190  Aerodrome- 2.0 ”Desert Valkyries!  
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 12, Location: :  
GM: Mark Wukas  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Wings and medals for victory and valor. 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/144, Rules: Aerodrome- Aerial Combat 
Rules 
Description: The battle in the desert is raging. Rommel has ordered the 
Luftwaffe to clear the way for his panzers by ordering waves of Ju87-
Stuka  dive bombers to destroy the British artillery positions. The RAF 
rises to the occasion by sending Hawker Hurricanes and P-40s to meet 
the attacking dive bombers. This game of simulated air combat uses the 
ever-popular Aerodrome- Aerial Combat Rules. Easy to learn and fun to 
play. Rules taught; all equipment provided. Wings and medals for victory 
and valor. 
 
 
F18:263  Assault on the Pratzen Heights  
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-23 
GM: Larry Yakowneko  
Sponsor: FrattSpiel Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 10mm, Rules: FrattNap - Hexed 
Description: FrattSpiel Games presents a hex version of The Victory Is 
Ours! [very similar to Small Deadly Space] 4" hexes = 200yds, beautiful 
WoFun acrylic flats by Peter Dennis. These rules will be published in the 
fall by On Military Matters. Staff officers aid maneuvers, rally, and push 
failed morale for Close Actions. Very few charts, very intuitive. Check out 
Battle of Austerlitz for fuller description. Hex version of The Victory Is 
Ours! 4" hexes = 200yds, beautiful WoFun acrylic flats by Peter Dennis. 
Staff Officers, Cohesion, 6,8,10,12,20 sided dice drive combat. 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  40 | 69 
 
 
F18:233  Waterloo  
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 18, Location: Commonwealth: CW-42 
GM: Robert Koffman  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Convention Napoleonics 
Description: The 1815 battle in its entirety. Napoleon vs. Wellington and 
Blucher. Colorful game. Rules provide that the game will reach a 
conclusion in approximately 3 hours. Simple rules with the use of 
combined arms of cavalry, infantry, and artillery will decide the day. 
 
F18:426  Ozzaganza  
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Commonwealth: CW-71 
& CW-81 
GM: Buck Surdu & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Wars of Ozz 
Description: Munchkinland is under attack!  The Ozzaganza is a large 
game you can only play at a convention.  All the various factions of Ozz 
will be represented, including Munchkins, Quadlings, Gillikins, and 
Winkies.  Bring a 25-point brigade, or one will be provided.  Wars of Ozz 
provides an old-school feel with modern mechanics. The unique 
activation mechanism provides friction while allowing players to 
influence the battle. The reaction test mechanic provides the right level 
of unpredictability. Rules will be taught.  Younger players welcome with 
a participating adult.  No booze, please. 
 
F18:506  Arnhem Bridge: The Battles for the Bridge. "Grabner's 
Charge" - 18. Sept. 1944 — Theme Game 
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Heritage: HR-12 & HR 13 
GM: Tom Uhl & DelVal 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Bolt Action 2 
Description: Elements of British 2nd Parachute Battalion led by Lt. Col. 
Frost, desperately cling to their hold on the structures surrounding the 
approach to Arnhem Bridge. A series of hastily assembled German SS 
Kampfgroups probe these defenses in hopes of denying further 
reinforcement of the tenuous allied perimeter just north of the bridge. 
Kids under 13 accompanied by Adult. 
 
F18:520  Hail Of Fire - Stalingrad  
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-52 
GM: Brandon Fraley & Yellow Worm Gaming Society 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Raffle prizes 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Hail of Fire 
Description: Battle over 12 feet of city reduced to rubble! Teams of 
Soviet and German commanders deploy their forces to attempt to 
capture and hold key objectives throughout the bombed-out remains of 
Stalingrad. Players must balance offensive and defensive tactics to 
achieve their objectives, while their troops try to survive the chaos of 
artillery and airstrikes in the ruins of the once great city! 8 Players, 13+, 
participants eligible for raffle prizes!  
 
F18:538  JOE HACK Britian 43 AD African Base Camp  
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage: HR-55 
GM: Joe Swartz & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: JOE HACK 
Description: As the African juggernaught rampages through the British 
countryside, word travels that the African"supply depot" is lightly 
guarded and the British decide to teach the Africans a lesson. As swarms 
of British combine to advance and overwhelm the African base, the 
Africans start to pull back from their devastation of the British 
countryside to counter the British column as it advances over the 
ground so recently trampled by the Africans. rules taught & minors 
welcome with adult 
 
F18:544  FIGHTING STEAM!  IRONCLADS II  The Sequel — Theme Game 
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-43 
GM: Paul Meyer & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 1:1000th, Rules: FIGHTING STEAM  -  
(Augmented) 
Description: The second Battle of Hampton Roads (brought to you by 
Turner Pictures , and starring Virginia II  not Virginia Madsen.)  1865   
The James River   squadron sorties against the Federal ships lying at 
Hampton Roads.  This time they have three powerful ironclads, but they 
ll be met by the descendants of USS Monitor   as well as a unexpected 
cohort. Fighting Steam is a fast-play game for ACW naval actions 
inspired by the SPI classic Fighting Sail.   Rules will be taught.  Young 
players welcome with a playing adult 
 
F18:620  Claverton Down, 3 July 1643  
Friday, 6:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-75 
GM: Richard Mentch & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Pike & Shot, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage & GloryII 
Description: In the early summer of 1643, the Parliamentarian army of 
Sir William Waller has led his Royalist friend Sir Ralph Hopton about in a 
dance of positions as Sir Willaim has attempted to defend Bath. This 
morning a sharp clash of horse led Sir William to withdraw from his 
positions guarding the crossings of the river Avon. He has decided to 
stand here at Claverton Down, but two miles from Bath, determined to 
hold till nightfall.  
 
F19:405  Asterix versus the Gladiators — Theme Game 
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-86 
GM: Edward Watts & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Fistful of Lead - Might and Melee 
Description: Caesar hopes gladiators can tame the Gauls that his legions 
can not, Asterix, Obelix and their Gallic village think not. Rules taught at 
table. 
 
F19:409  Abbeville, 1940: The Great Allied Armored Counterattack (28-
30 May)  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Commonwealth: CW-84 
GM: Bruce Weigle & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Gained By Battle (prototype) 
Description: Enroute Dunkirk, a second-line Bavarian infantry division 
was dropped off at Abbeville, to act as an offensive bridgehead for 
further operations against France.  Duly alarmed, the French high 
command ordered its immediate extinction, and, between 27 May - 7 
June, four division-size attacks were made on the position; this game will 
feature the strongest French attack, led by the mighty 4th DCR. Will the 
Char B1's break through this time?  Will the Bavarians' desperate 
defense hold?    I have no idea.  
 
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  41 | 69 
 
F19:430  Doctor Who - Lock, Stock and 2 Smoking Daleks — Theme 
Game 
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-82 
GM: Gregory Priebe & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Doctor Who Miniatures Game 
(DWMG) 2nd edition - modified 
Description: England, 2007AD. The Army of Ghosts and the Cult of Skaro 
are attacking. The streets are a warzone. How long can you survive? Join 
us for a laid-back evening of hijinks with the Doctor, Daleks, Cybermen 
and Torchwood in this revival of Karl Perrotton's classic Salute 2010 
participation game scenario! Children are welcome with a participating 
adult. 
 
F19:443  Eutaw Springs  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-72 
GM: Geoff Graff & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Simple 
Home Rules, well tested 
Description: A most unusual battle in our Revolutionary War.  The sides 
almost exactly even - the Continental army was the attacker - the British 
were surprised.  In addition, the terrain played an important part.  An 
interesting set of problems for each side.  
 
F19:444  Inadvertent Crossing  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-73 
GM: Michael Byrne & HAWKs 
Sponsor: Age of Glory, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Force on Force modified 
Description: Saboteurs destroyed Polish railroad equipment and tracks. 
As Polish forces search for the culprits a lost Russian platoon enters 
Poland. NATO forces react to the border crossing.  
 
F19:474  FIREBALL FORWARD - TANK ATTACK AT LA FIERE — Theme 
Game 
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: : HR-57 
GM: Michael DeCarlo & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Fireball Forward 
Description: 80th D-Day Anniversary Commemoration game.  On D-Day, 
any German counterattack against Utah Beach had to move through the 
town of Sainte-Mere-Eglise. To get there from the East, German forces 
needed to cross the Merderet River bridge at the small farm known as 
La FiÃ¨re Manor, held by the 82nd Airborne. The final scene in ˜Saving 
Private Ryanâ™ was based on this action.  
 
F19:482  MOBY-DICK or THE WHALE Game — Theme Game 
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : HR-56 
GM: Tom Ballou & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: 1840 Whaling, Scale: 15mm, Rules: John Rigley's Moby Dick 
Description: â€œTowards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but 
unconquering whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hells heart I 
stab at thee; for hates sake I spit my last breath at thee.â€  Cried Ahab, 
fouled in a running line vanishes beneath the waves.  You my brave 
Nantucket whalers must avenge him!  Fun and fast paced game to hunt 
down and harpoon Moby Dick!  A unique game. dont miss it!  
 
 
F19:490  The Battle of Midway, 1942 — Theme Game 
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: : HR-46 
GM: Carl cardozo & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Fire in the Sky 
Description: Trouble is, I want that fourth carrier! Take command of the 
fearsome Kido Butai or the valiant US Navy in the struggle for the 
Pacific! The IJN has its sights set on capturing a target called AF - 
and thanks to the codebreakers in Hawaii, they wont take Midway 
without a fight! Each player commands a carriers complement of 
fighters and bombers. Play the strategic game using 
Avalon Hills classic Midway game, and the airstrikes using the new 
wargame rules Fire in the 
Sky! 
 
F19:524  Hold the Hill! / Take the Hill!  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-62 
GM: Daniel Erdman & Pittsburgh Band of Gamers 
Sponsor: Test of Battle, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/72nd, Rules: Command Decision 4 
Description: Italy, 1943: Princess Patricias Canadian Light Infantry 
(PPCLI) captured a small Italian village with hardly a shot fired.   
Elements of 200th Panzer Grenadier have regrouped and will attack with 
support from 26th Panzer Regiment.  Meanwhile, 44th RTR is arriving on 
the scene. Plenty of terrain for surprise attacks and ambushes. Rules are 
Command Decision 4 (Test of Battle). Familiarity with the rules is not 
required. Players age 10-15 are welcome with an adult. 
 
F19:532  BRAZEN CHARIOTS  Call Fitzhugh! — Theme Game 
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-54 
GM: Adam Wine & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Certificates 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: BRAZEN CHARIOTS Tank 
Battle Game 
Description: Based on the 1953 war movie The Desert Rats. It is April 
1941 and Rommel has pushed the British forces all the way to the 
Egyptian border. Only the fortified city of Tobruk remains in British 
hands. On April 11, Rommel attempts to take Tobruk by storm. A 
company of the 9th Australian Infantry and their Scottish Capt. 
MacRoberts have stopped the first wave, but are now threatened by a 
second assault, this one supported by tanks. MacRoberts calls his friend 
Capt. Fitzhugh for anti-tank support.  
 
F19:566  The Battle of Isandlwana — Theme Game 
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 9, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-1 
GM: Dave Waxtel & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Men Who Would Be Kings 
Description: The Battle of Isandlwana on January 22, 1879 was the first 
major encounter in the war between the British Empire and the Zulu 
Nation. Eleven days after the British invaded Zululand, a Zulu force of 
some 20,000 warriors attacked a portion of the British main column 
consisting of 1,800 British, colonial, and native troops. Children 
particiption encouraged! 
 
F19:583  The April Fools  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Federal Room: FD-2 
GM: Don Carlucci & Naval Wargamer's Group 
Sponsor: None, Prize: None 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  42 | 69 
 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:2400th, Rules: Command at Sea with 
Modifications 
Description: In early 1940 the iron ore supply from Norway is uncertain. 
Germany decides to invade the country but, with intelligence indicating 
that the British and French intend to intervene, decide to use their naval 
forces to interdict the Allied reinforcements leaving the transport of 
troops for the assault landings to smaller surface vessels, transports and 
older warships. The Royal Navy will attempt to put ashore the 148th 
Infantry Brigade and the French 342me tank company at Andalsnes near 
Trondheim. Some surprises will invariably occur, and a good time should 
be had by all. Some experience with Command at Sea is a plus but 
newbies are welcome.  The damage rules will be modified somewhat 
and rules will be taught. 
 
F19:605  The Road to Ambleve — Theme Game 
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-15 
GM: Eric Turner & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:48th, Rules: What A Tanker 
Description: We take that dog of a movie from 1965, "Battle of the 
Bulge", and plop it down in the middle of Historicon using Too Fat 
Lardies rules. A game, based on a movie, based on a real battle. What 
could go wrong? Ability to sing the Panzerlied not required. 
 
F19:628  Conflict at Kastornoe, 1919  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-72 
GM: Michael Pierce & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Inter-War, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Red Struggle (home) 
Description: By 1919, the Russian Civil War had raged for 2 years.  The 
White Army's offensive had gained great swaths of the Ukraine, but 
their momentum was waning.  The Red Army struck back to capture the 
important railroad town of Kasternoe.  
 
F19:203  Siege Lord Hashimoto's Castle! — Theme Game 
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Freedom Foyer: FP-1 
GM: Thomas Vielott  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Renaissance, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Siege Swein Forkbeard's Castle 
(Modified) 
Description: The army of Lord Murakami has arrived at the gates of 
Niseoka, the lynchpin of Lord Hashimoto's western border fortresses. 
Murakami knows that Hashimoto will not be far away - the castle must 
be taken now or or never. The Princess of Ninjas has prepared the way, 
now comes the butcher work of the assault. Heroes will brush their 
name in a calligraphy of blood this day. Easy rules, loud challenges, and 
battle poetry! The follow on to Thursday's cloak and dagger event. 
 
F19:139  Pride and Prejudice and Zombies — Theme Game 
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-34 
GM: Richard Claydon  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Silver Bayonet 
Description: 1813 and Britain is overrun with zombies! Characters from 
Jane Austin’s novels battle the undead horde. Some have trained in 
ancient Chinese and Japanese martial arts while other are adept with 
firearms. Zombies hide everywhere they need to be identified and 
eliminated. Use clue markers to aid your work in putting the undead 
back in their graves. The Silver Bayonet rules modified.  
 
F19:193  No Safe Place - scenario from Battles Above 4  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 7, Location: Commonwealth: CW-13 
GM: DAVID WINFREE  
Sponsor: I-94 Enterprises, Prize: Aircraft minis (unpainted) to MVP of 
each side 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Check Your 6! 
Description: From Battles Above 4! aftermarket scenario book. Battle 
between Finns and Russians, Jan'42. Scenario roster altered to permit 
each player to run 2 aircraft. 
 
F19:211  Gunfight at Narudas Gorge (German South West Africa, 1905)  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-12 
GM: Roy Jones  
Sponsor: Recreational Conflict, Prize: NONE 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Sword and the Flame (Modified) 
Description: Jakobus Morenga leads a column of horse-mounted Nama 
troops racing south through the gorge at Narudas. The outnumbered 
German Fussabteilung (Foot Detachment) confronts Morenga and his 
men. The objective for both sides: the hill that dominates the right flank. 
Meanwhile on the left flank, the German horsemen of the berittene 
Abteilung (Mounted Detachment) assault the outnumbered Nama foot 
troops of the Morris Brothers. It’s a Horse vs. Foot gunfight at Narudas! 
More at www.hererowars.com.  
 
F19:309  Buccaneers of Bird Cay!  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Commonwealth: CW-11 
GM: Trevor Hawkins  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Age of Piracy, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Limeys & Slimeys 
Description: Pirate Free for All!Its September 4, 1718, the last day to 
conduct acts of piracy before getting a Royal pardon tomorrow. Several 
crews decide to conduct one last day of piracy before obtaining a full 
pardon. Every player gets a ship and fights to gather as many Piece of 
Eight as possible before the day ends! No teams, just a free for all naval 
battle.  
Join in as a Pirate or Navy captain to settle old scores, start new scores, 
pad your resume, loot, fight and have fun!  
Bring you own Rum  
 
F19:329  Surviving the Northwest Frontier- British vs Pathans 1878  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-4 
GM: Jared fishman  
Sponsor: 20Sided Gamified LLC, Prize: yes 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Sword and the Flame 
Description: The year is 1878.  The setting is a small village located in a 
valley somewhere within the Northwest Frontier.  Imagine yourself part 
of an escort protecting a member of Parliament during his travels 
through the region.  All is quiet- that is, until the first jezzail shots ring 
out and the uprising starts!  Play as a Pathan trying to eliminate all of the 
imperialist intruders from the region, or as the scattered, disjointed 
British troops trying to protect key figures and restore the village to 
order.  Rules will be the classic "The Sword and the Flame" by Larry 
Brom.  This game will be tongue in cheek, beer and pretzels, and fun! 
Prizes awarded and guest slots for the game recap will be available 
should you want to star on the 20 Sided Gamified Podcast! 
 
 
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  43 | 69 
 
F19:135  Crecy  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 5, Location: :  
GM: David Knight  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Hundred Years War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Resolve: 
Hundred Years War 
Description: Although the English seem to be well-set in a good 
defensive position, the many converging French troops could 
overwhelm them. Will the young Black Prince hold his nerve, or Edward 
have to save him? Will Blind King John have an eye to leaving a positive 
legacy written in the Chronicles?  
 
F19:142  Dawn of the Dead — Theme Game 
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: :  
GM: John Currin  
Sponsor: Monster Fight Club, Prize: miniatures 
Period: Modern, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Zombie Apocalypse 
Description: The world’s largest zombie game meets the world’s largest 
ship model.  Come play an exciting game involving 1500 zombies played 
out on the amazing container ship (the ship itself fills an entire table) 
and dockyard setup from Monster Fight Club.  Can the humans survive 
the huge zombie hordes and make their escape?  This fast, fun and 
furiously paced game will provide non-stop action for players.  Our goal 
is a game whose fun and excitement equals the sheer spectacle of the 
terrain it is played over.  No players under the age of 14 due to minor 
adult themes. 
 
F19:146  Circus Maximus  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 19, Location: Commonwealth: CW-31 
GM: Kenneth Cassady  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Circus Maximus Home Brew 
Description: Glory to Rome and its Circus Maximus.  Race your chariot in 
the largest stadium in the Roman Empire.  This is a league so if you are a 
returning driver you will have the chance to upgrade your chariot. Better 
horses, cart and driver.  Drivers gain experience to increase 1 of six skills.  
I have everything you need to race. This is a Kid Friendly game.  (note 
their will be some Monty Python names pulled from Life of Brian) 
 
F19:171  The Battle of Bennington 1777  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: :  
GM: Michael Kelley  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Black 
Powder 
Description: Brunswick Forces from Burgoyne's army try the defend 
themselves against a large force of New Hampshire militia Led by 
General John Stark.  This Historical refight will challenge all players.  
 
F19:394  The Grand Redoubt, Borodino, 1812  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-14 
GM: Robert Lockley  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Shako 2 
Description: Napolean orders Prince Eugene to launch a massive assault 
against the Russian center position The Grand Redoubt. The Russians are 
led by General Raevsky and they must hold there position against the 
French onslaught. Will history repeat itself or will the Russian center 
hold? You decide.  
 
F19:136  Sevestapol 1942 Fort Maxim Gorky  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FP-5,FP-6 
GM: Jeff Whitlock  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: WWII Eastern Front, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Bolt Action - Warlord 
Games 
Description: Once the Germans had broken through the Perekop 
Isthmus in October 1941, they advanced on Sevastopol but were 
confronted by Maxim Gorky I. They deployed the 80 cm rail gun 
Schwerer Gustav to destroy it. On June 6, 1942, heavy guns and Karl-
Gerat siege mortars. Can the Germans take the fort and follow history or 
will the Soviet Navy and RKKA hold out to give the germans a bloddy 
nose? Come find out! Kids under 12 welcome with a adult. 
 
F19:269  Battle of Austerlitz  
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-23 
GM: Steve Fratt  
Sponsor: FrattSpiel Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 6mm, Rules: FrattSpiel - The Victory Is Ours! 
Description: FrattSpiel Games presents its Napoleonic game similar to 
Small Deadly Space [ACW] 1" = 50yds, 1 figure = 25 men, These rules will 
be published in the fall by On Military Matters. Staff Officers serve many 
functions for maneuver, rallying, pushing attacks. Artillery forces units to 
test morale. Close Action dominates combat, driven by Cohesion ratings 
requiring very few charts. Plays more like a War College event - atypical - 
players will feel like they actually watch the battle unfold. For the player 
looking for something innovative. Steve Fratt presents The Victory Is 
Ours! a companion game to his Small Deadly Space ACW game from last 
year. Plays like a War College Event than typical con game. For players 
seeking new approach. 
 
F19:304  Pickett's Charge - The War Game — Theme Game 
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
41,51, 
GM: Jim Purky  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Never Call Retreat 
Description: You've seen the movie Gettysburg and now is your chance 
to replay Pickett's Charge in epic 54mm scale with a cast of over 1,200 
figures. Will you lead the Confederate charge up Cemetery Ridge or will 
you stand fast with Winnie Hancock and turn back the rebel tide? 
Victory Points allow for either side to win the game. Good ground and  
easy to learn rules lead to a fast paced game.  
 
F19:305  Pickett's Charge - The War Game — Theme Game 
Friday, 7:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: :  
GM: Jim Purky  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Never Call Retreat 
Description: You've seen the movie Gettysburg and now is your chance 
to replay Pickett's Charge in epic 54mm scale with a cast of over 1,200 
figures. Will you lead the Confederate charge up Cemetery Ridge or will 
you stand fast with Winnie Hancock and turn back the rebel tide? 
Victory Points allow for either side to win the game. Good ground and  
easy to learn rules lead to a fast paced game.  
 
F20:687  ULTIMATE OVERLORD #4: PANZER-COUNTER-STRIKE -- D-DAY 
80th Anniversary — Theme Game 
Friday, 8:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 18, Location: Freedom A: FA-2 
GM: Peter Panzeri  
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  44 | 69 
 
Sponsor: MINIATURE BUILDING AUTHORITY  (MBA), Prize: Players who 
participate in ALL FIVE "Ultimate Overlord Events" will receive a Special 
Award & Free Copy of the Book: OPERATION OVERLORD: D-DAY 1944 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: DIVISION-LEVEL ROMMEL-
RULES by Pete Panzeri: Available to all players FREE @Game-End! 
Description: Elite Panzer formations of "Operation Luttich" are sent to 
counter-strike past MORTAIN & cut-off Patton's tanks from their fuel & 
supplies. Can the Germans defeat the invasion despite allied air 
superiority?  Can both sides manipulate their logistical troubles to avoid 
a total disaster? Who will risk all to succeed? Who will collapse & fail? 
Execute rapid & intense division-level attacks & counter-attacks in 
exciting battles with infantry, Armor, artillery, Special Forces, air & naval 
combat as well as essential logistics for both sides.  
Event starts with RESPECTS RENDERED to our WW2 VETS. *ONE-TIME-
ONLY SCENARIO at HISTORICON'24: DON'T MISS IT!  **ALSO DON'T MISS 
War College Presentation: "DISASTER at D-DAY" 5pm Thursday in 
Montgomery House. Hosted by DUKE SEIFRIED FOUNDATION. 
 
 
F20:440  Sherlock Holmes Crime of the Century  
Friday, 8:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-83 
GM: Sam Fuson & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: 19th Century, Scale: 28mm, Rules: G.A.S.L.I.G.H.T. 
Description: Holmes tries to figure out and stop a crime spree 
happening in Southeast London. Holmes invites some interesting guests 
to join his investigation (example: Wild Bill Hickok and his newly formed 
& trained The Apache Police). Clues come from people or places and 
include scrabble tiles that spell key phrases, slips of paper, pictures, 
puzzles and more.  If you like mystery and figuring things out, this 
contest is for you! Children are welcome, but will have a problem 
figuring out the advanced puzzles/clues without an adult. The approach 
to Clues is very similar to those used in Escape Rooms plus others. 
 
F20:499  The Walking Dead All Out War  
Friday, 8:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-21 
GM: Ryan Devine & WAMP 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Scifi-Zombies, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Walking Dead All Out 
War 
Description: Scenario to be determined. Blood, bullets, and brains 
guaranteed. Kids welcome with adult present. Please no food or drinks 
on the table. 
 
F20:505  CHEYENNE DOWN! — Theme Game 
Friday, 8:00:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-14 
GM: Bob Edoo & Night Ravens 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Alien vs Predator 
Description: From Alien Xenomorphs skulking in the shadows, waiting 
for the moment of weakness to pounce on and capture new hosts for 
the brood, to the well-trained Colonial Marines who are geared up with 
state-of-the-art equipment and finally to a mysterious race of brutal 
extra-terrestrial Hunters that the humans call Predators, each Force 
offers a unique set of skills to provide their own diversity to the 
gameplay. Theres no shortage of terror and excitement in Alien vs 
Predator!  
 
F20:560  Into The Darkness: CLASH OF STEEL (Tabletop Tank Battles): 
Operation Unthinkable: BATTLES  
Friday, 8:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-8 
GM: James Nicholson & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and 
Gaming Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/100th, Rules: CLASH OF STEEL rules and 
house rules. 
Description: Welcome to Clash of Steel. Its 1948 and the war has started 
again. Based on an Alternative History where the war in Europe finishes 
in 1944 with the surrender of Germany, but restarts just four years later 
in the face of Soviet aggression. Come join us in Gale Force Nine's 'New' 
CLASH OF STEEL (Tabletop tank Battles)  
 
F20:577  The Joust !  
Friday, 8:00:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 24, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-2 
GM: Eric Jacobson & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 28mm, Rules: To Cry a Joust 
Description: Hear ye, hear ye! All are invited to participate in the grand 
return of the Joust at Fall-In! Rules taught. Quick, east, fun, and prizes. 
No one under 10 without a playing adult.  
 
F20:659  Into The Darkness: WARHAMMER 40K: Battles  
Friday, 8:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-7 
GM: Buford Culver & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and Gaming 
Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: WARHAMMER 40K and House rules. 
Description: A new edition makes planet fall. Ravening aliens strike at a 
desperate Imperium in the new edition of Warhammer 40,000. Discover 
one of the world's most popular miniatures games. Come join us in  
learning this new edition of Warhammer 40,000. All are welcome and all 
materials will be provided.  
 
F21:704  Arena Games - Gladiators  
Friday, 9:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage: HR-22 
GM: Steve Robinson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Arena Games 
Description: "Let there be games!" yelled the magistrate to thunder of 
the crowds as you wait in the dimness of the pen.  There is nothing else 
in life than the immortality of the arena.  Can your fighting skills bring 
appeasement of the gods as you climb to ultimate victory!  Or, does fate 
bring you an early painful retirement.  The victor's name will be 
immortalized on the great wall of fame.   Beginners, soda/beer and 
pretzels are welcomed!  
 
F21:374  Midnight Massacre - Prokhorovka/Kursk  
Friday, 9:00:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 24, Location: : CW-52&CW-53 
GM: Matt Fisher  
Sponsor: Your Hobby Place, Prize: Prize for top Russian & German 
players 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Bolt Action - Modified 
Description: Come take part in the social event of the convention and 
blow up some tanks in the largest tank battle of history! As part of the 
Battle of Kursk, the Soviet 5th Guards Tank Army attacked the German II 
SS-Panzer Corps. Over 900 tanks took part in the battle so take 
command of a squad and crush your opponents. Two drink minimum for 
players and lots of unique rules are in effect for some midnight 
madness! Adult Game.  
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  45 | 69 
 
S09:321  The Battle of Nicaea  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FA-4 
GM: Aaron Cain  
Sponsor: Washington Grand Company, Prize: NONE 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Triumph! 
Description: During the first crusade at siege of Nicaea, the Rum Turk 
Sultan attempted to rescue the city by sending a large mounted force.  
This resulted in a three day battle outside the city walls.  Heavy mounted 
knights of the crusaders vs. the swift light cavalry of the Turks will face 
off in the first major battle of the first crusade. This battle will be fought 
using Triumph! Rules for Tabletop Battles Ancient and Medieval.  
Experienced and new players are welcome.  Rules will be taught! 
 
S09:197  VSF: Airship Down! — Theme Game 
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-4 
GM: Gabriel Landowski  
Sponsor: MHWA, Prize: NONE 
Period: Victorian Science Fiction, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Damned Human 
Race 
Description: When debris from an ancient alien space fleet seeds the 
solar system in 1863, a lot of weird and wonderful things emerge! Take 
part as towering dinosaurs and thundering steam walkers struggle for 
ultimate control while the the colonial powers of Europe play out the 
same old game but with a new twist! MHWA: Kid friendly 
 
S09:240  UN Peace Keeping in Chad  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-12 
GM: Patrick McGarrity  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: 3D printed vehicle. 
Period: Modern, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Force on Force 
Description: In South Eastern Chad (2008), Irish Army Ranger Wing 
(ARW) troops are part of a UN Peacekeeping Mission tasked with 
guarding convoys carrying essential supplies, protecting refugee camps, 
and providing long range recon patrols in hostile territory.  Frequent 
incursions by Sudanese rebels from Darfur heighten tensions that result 
in an attempt to ambush a convoy.  Will the convoy cross the table? Sign 
up and find out. This is a 28 mm scale game.  
 
S09:241  Tora! Tora! Tora! — Theme Game 
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-11 
GM: Patrick Woodard  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:1200th, Rules: Table Air Combat - 
Modified 
Description: December 7, 1941...a date which will live in infamy... or will 
it? Take on the roles of the Japanese aerial strike force bound for Pearl 
Harbor! Take command of the 250+ aircraft present that morning over a 
stunning 1:2400 recreation of the harbor. Cripple the American Pacific 
Fleet, bag yourself a battlewagon, and earn the favor of the Emperor!  
 
S09:297  War on Terra Nova part 4  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-5 
GM: James Faltum  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: free plastic mini 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 12mm, Rules: Heavy Gear Blitz,  ver 3.1 
Description: In the distant future war rages on the planet known as 
Terra Nova.  Piloted robots known as Heavy Gears have become the 
premiere fighting machine of choice. Join the fight for honor or just 
survival. 
Part 4: in TN 1950 (6143 AD), The War For Terra Nova begins as Earth 
returns.  Join the final fight to as forces clash in defence of a Terra 
Novan city. Rules taught, and all models provided.  HG Blitz uses 
alternating activation and reaction mechanics. 
 
S09:306  Dreadnaughts at War  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Walnut: WN-1 
GM: Kim Young  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Copy of game rules 
Period: World War I, Scale: 1:6000th, Rules: Fighting Battleships 
Description: German Admiral Scheer shows his High Seas Fleet off the 
coast of Norway in hopes of catching a portion of the British Grand Fleet 
and defeating it.This is a multi-squadron level game involving over 30 
battleships and battle crusiers. Players will each command a squadron of 
3 to 5 Dreadnoughts. Ships will move and fight in squadron formation in 
this game with focus on guns, armor and speed and not minutia and 
endless detail. If you where a fan of the old Avalon Hill game Jutland and 
large fleet actions, then you will enjoy this.  
 
S09:314  Acquiring the Asset — Theme Game 
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Grand Foyer: GF-6 
GM: Troy Nowak  
Sponsor: Your Hobby Place, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 25mm, Rules: West End Games Star Wars 
Miniatures Battles 
Description: Imperials, hired guns, and bounty hunters collide in this 
new scenario for West End Games Star Wars Miniatures Battles by David 
O. Little from the pages of the Star Wars Adventurer's Journal. Learn 
basic game mechanics and the use of heroes and droids playing with 
vintage lead and modern resin 25mm miniatures; kids under 14 
welcome with a playing adult. No food at the table.  
 
S09:340  Surviving the Northwest Frontier- British vs Pathans 1878  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-4 
GM: Jared fishman  
Sponsor: 20Sided Gamified LLC, Prize: yes 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Sword and the Flame 
Description: The year is 1878.  The setting is a small village located in a 
valley somewhere within the Northwest Frontier.  Imagine yourself part 
of an escort protecting a member of Parliament during his travels 
through the region.  All is quiet- that is, until the first jezzail shots ring 
out and the uprising starts!  Play as a Pathan trying to eliminate all of the 
imperialist intruders from the region, or as the scattered, disjointed 
British troops trying to protect key figures and restore the village to 
order.  Rules will be the classic "The Sword and the Flame"  by Larry 
Brom.  This game will be tongue in cheek, beer and pretzels, and fun!  If 
you're Prizes awarded and guest slots for the game recap will be 
available should you want to star on the 20 Sided Gamified Podcast! 
 
S09:357  Ages of Conflict - Battle of Camlann  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth: CW-75 
GM: Michael Love  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Dark Ages, Scale: 18 mm, Rules: Ages of Conflict 
Description: The Battle of Camlann is said to have been the final battle 
between Arthur and his rebelling son (Or nephew.), Mordred. According 
to the Annales Cambriae, the battle took place in 537 or 539 CE with 
Mordred marshalling an army of mercenaries against Arthur's army of 
Welsh and Romano-British. 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  46 | 69 
 
As a mild twist, we're throwing in a bit of low-level magic to include 
Merlin and Excalibur.  
 
S09:360  Battle of Magnesia, 190 BC  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Walnut: WN-2 
GM: Bob Bryant  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Might of Arms 
Description: The Romans are determined to stop the military 
adventures of the Seleucid king, Antiochus III. A battle of fearsome pikes 
against the formidable legions of Rome.  
 
S09:387  StarForce Commander — Theme Game 
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-3 
GM: Patrick Doyle  
Sponsor: Mariner Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: Other, Rules: StarForce Commander 
Description: StarForce Commander is a thrilling game of tactical starship 
combat where every decision counts. Easy to learn, but with tactical 
depth. We'll have you in full command in 15 minutes. From arming 
weapons to maneuvering and sensor and shield management.  Join us at 
our table for a quick demo or participate in a full battle. Come say hi 
even if the timeslot is full and we'll fit you in or set up an alternate time 
to play. Don't miss out on the chance to learn StarForce Commander 
from its designers. Ages 12+. For more info: www.mariner.games 
 
S09:392  We Strike at Dawn! — Theme Game 
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Grand Foyer: GF-1 
GM: Martin Fenelon  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War I, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Fight for the Skies: Wood 
& Canvas 
Description: Hoping to gain more experience before the big push, an 
American squadron decides to strike a German airfield at dawn. They 
plan to catch the Huns napping, but the experienced aces of the 
Jagdwaffe may be ready for the 'cowboys'. Fast-play air-to-air rules, no 
experience necessary, rules will be taught. 
 
S09:398  Gettysburg: 20th Maine vs. 15th & 47th Alabama — Theme 
Game 
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-22 
GM: Mark T.  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 40mm, Rules: Rebels & Patriots 
(modified) 
Description: July 2nd, 1863: The 20th Maine has arrived on the far left 
flank of the Union Army at Little Round Top, and just in time to meet the 
15th and 47th Alabama Regiments assaulting the hill. (Rules taught, 12 
and under ok with parent, sign up only one.) This is a theme game from 
the Gettysburg movie, and although using newer rules and scenery, it is 
in memoriam of James Hatch.  
 
S09:177  Action of 5 November 1813  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 7, Location: Commonwealth: CW-15& 
CW-25 
GM: Richard Greenaway  
Sponsor: Waterloo Games, Prize: Waterloo Games Gift Certificate 
Period: Age of Sail, Scale: 1:1200th, Rules: Far Distant Ships 
Description: ight days of strong gale force winds had driven the 
blockading British from their stations off Toulon. On the 5th of 
November, 1813 taking advantage of the absence of blockading forces 
and favorable winds elements of the French fleet had left the harbor of 
Toulon for exercises. when the wind direction suddenly changed the 
returning British saw their chance to cut off the French rear. Fast easy to 
learn rules that emphasize Fighting Sail era tactics and command and 
control. A sudden shift of wind direction has put elements of the French 
fleet holding exercises in danger of being cut off from their home port of 
Toulon by the returning British blockade. 
 
S09:282  Bavaria Ablaze: Anvil into Hammer  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-14 
GM: Richard McMahon  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 6mm, Rules: Soldats de l'Empire! (formerly 
Houserules Napoleonics by Brian Stokes) 
Description: Napoleon has returned to correct Berthier's blunders. 
Crossing the Isar, he is driving the stunned Austrian army northwards. 
Davout, who had been put in peril, is now ordered to turn his III Corps 
about and attack the leading elements of the Hauptarmee, Rosenberg 
and Hohenzollern, to prevent the Austrians from reaching Regensburg 
to cross the Danube to safety. Soldats de l'Empire! attempts to answer 
the question of how, often outnumbered, French forces were still able 
to accomplish extraordinary feats. Command flexibility, tactical agility 
and skirmishing are key factors. The Austrians counter with numbers, 
firepower and dogged determination. This will be the first of 2 slots for 
this game. 
With the agreement of all players, the 2nd slot may be a continuation of 
the first. 
 
S09:125  StarDate 3018 Ambush at Elphac IIIa  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-23 
GM: David Cashin  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: Other, Rules: Full Thrust Continuum cinematic 
movement 
Description: The Alien Confederation has discovered the location of the 
clandestine Tellurian base in the spinward trojans of Elphac III, used by 
the Tellurian CRUBATGRU ELEVEN raiding their convoys and refueling 
groups. Quickly mustering a strike group the Confederation drops out of 
jump space for a lightening ambush on the makeshift Tellurian base. 
Each player will command a small squadron of ships. Rules and game are 
designed for first time players or veternas. Walk ups welcome to take an 
empty seat.  Children under 13 with accompanying Adult. 
 
S09:173  Battletech: Counter-Attack and Lift Off  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Hickory B: HK-3 
GM: Harold Carfrey  
Sponsor: Catalyst Demo Team, Prize: Battletech Swag 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 1/275 scale, Rules: Battletech 
Description: Hesperus II, Operation LockjawThe Allied Mercenary 
Command units have hit, now it has become necessary to run.  The 
Good news is you know where your pick-up is, the bad news its not here 
yet. An up to 8 player game with each player controlling 2 units each. 
 
S09:182  RUHR FOREST TANK BATTLE  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: : CW-33 
GM: Robert Varga  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Beer and Pretzel Home rules 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  47 | 69 
 
Description: Battle of the Bulge has been decided the Germans have 
retreated into Germany with Gen. Patton advancing rapidly after them 
needing to capture the bridge. The approach to that bridge via the road 
has been temporarily halted by the Germans. Patton can't wait on air 
support that's grounded by weather conditions he needs that crossing. 
Patton assigns his tanks the task via the Ruhr Forest bypassing the road 
and advancing into map section 1 where the bridge is located, protected 
by an Anti-Tank Gun, and hidden Armor ready to ambush anything they 
encounter. The area has small hills, heavily wooded, that aid or hinders 
both sides. Easy fun game 
 
S09:264  Assault on the Pratzen Heights  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-23 
GM: Larry Yakowneko  
Sponsor: FrattSpiel Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 10mm, Rules: FrattNap - Hexed 
Description: FrattSpiel Games presents a hex version of The Victory Is 
Ours! [very similar to Small Deadly Space] 4" hexes = 200yds, beautiful 
WoFun acrylic flats by Peter Dennis. These rules will be published in the 
fall by On Military Matters. Staff officers aid maneuvers, rally, and push 
failed morale for Close Actions. Very few charts, very intuitive. Check out 
Battle of Austerlitz for fuller description. Hex version of The Victory Is 
Ours! 4" hexes = 200yds, beautiful WoFun acrylic flats by Peter Dennis. 
Staff Officers, Cohesion, 6,8,10,12,20 sided dice drive combat. 
 
S09:289  Strasbourg AD 357: The Battle for Gaul Sat AM  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-53 
GM: Harry Voelkel  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: To The Strongest by Simon Miller 
Description: Refight the battle of Strasbourg 357 AD in glorious 28mm 
with over a thousand miniatures using Simon Miller's "To The Strongest" 
ruleset. The fate of Rome hangs in the balance as Germanic hordes have 
crossed the Rhine and look to establish a permanent presence in the 
Empire. The young and untested Julian seeks to be worthy of the heroes 
of old and crush the German menace with his army of veteran legions. 
Meanwhile, the canny Chnodomar, high king of the Alamanni Tribe 
seeks to add to his wealth and power. The fate of Rome hangs in the 
balance, who will be victorious? The disciplined Romans or the wild 
Barbarians? Refight the battle of Strasbourg 357 AD in glorious 28mm 
with over a thousand miniatures using Simon Miller's "To The 
Strongest"  ruleset. The fate of Rome hangs in the balance! 
 
S09:410  Abbeville, 1940: The Great Allied Armored Counterattack (28-
30 May)  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Commonwealth: CW-84 
GM: Bruce Weigle & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Gained By Battle (prototype) 
Description: Enroute Dunkirk, a second-line Bavarian infantry division 
was dropped off at Abbeville, to act as an offensive bridgehead for 
further operations against France.  Duly alarmed, the French high 
command ordered its immediate extinction, and, between 27 May - 7 
June, four division-size attacks were made on the position; this game will 
feature the strongest French attack, led by the mighty 4th DCR. Will the 
Char B1's break through this time?  Will the Bavarians' desperate 
defense hold?    I have no idea.  
 
 
 
 
S09:414  Wars of Ozz: Learn to Play & Bring and Battle  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-72 
GM: Christopher Palmer & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Horse & Musket Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Wars of Ozz 
Description: Come take part in this battle set in the Horse & Musket 
fantasy world of Ozz.  Various factions, including Munchkins, Winkies, 
and the new Ratavian Pie-Rats, fight for victory in this fast paced an fun 
game.  Also, players are invited to bring their own painted 25-point 
brigades of Old Glory's official Wars of Ozz figures to command, any 
faction; or you can use one of our brigades. Beginners welcome. Rules 
taught. Players under 13 only with a playing adult.  
 
S09:419  Magic and Tech Demo  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-85 
GM: Kevin Fischer & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ultramodern Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Magic and Tech 
Description: A militant group has risen in the countryside of the Penar 
Providence. A Mechanized Infantry Platoon has been dispatched to deal 
with them before they cause great harm and damage in the grasslands. 
Your feedback will be greatly appreciated. Two-player quick-starts will 
be available for those that want one. 
 
S09:427  Grand Game of Eagles and Empires  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Commonwealth: CW-71 
& CW-81 
GM: Buck Surdu & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Wars of Eagles and Empires 
Description: This is a large game you can only play at a convention, like 
the ones I remember when I was new to miniatures gaming.  Based on 
the popular Wars of Ozz family of rules, Wars of Eagles and Empires 
provides an old-school feel with modern mechanics. The unique 
activation mechanism provides friction while allowing players to 
influence the battle. The reaction test mechanic provides the right level 
of unpredictability.  Wars of Eagles and Empires sets out to prove the 
Napoleonic games can be fun. Rules will be taught.  Younger players 
welcome with a participating adult.  No booze, please. 
 
S09:431  Let's Play Combat Patrol TM - A Very British Civil War  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-82 
GM: Gregory Priebe & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Inter-War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Combat Patrol TM 
Description: Learn this exciting WWII skirmish rules system by playing 
just a couple turns or a whole game. Rules will be taught by one of the 
supplement authors. Drop in during this session, take control of a squad 
and learn the streamlined mechanics that enable you to fight the battle, 
not the rules. Children are welcome with a participating adult. 
 
S09:441  Sherlock Holmes Crime of the Century  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-83 
GM: Sam Fuson & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: 19th Century, Scale: 28mm, Rules: G.A.S.L.I.G.H.T. 
Description: Holmes tries to figure out and stop a crime spree 
happening in Southeast London. Holmes invites some interesting guests 
to join his investigation (example: Wild Bill Hickok and his newly formed 
& trained The Apache Police). Clues come from people or places and 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  48 | 69 
 
include scrabble tiles that spell key phrases, slips of paper, pictures, 
puzzles and more.  If you like mystery and figuring things out, this 
contest is for you! Children are welcome, but will have a problem 
figuring out the advanced puzzles/clues without an adult. The approach 
to Clues is very similar to those used in Escape Rooms plus others. 
 
S09:451  The Russo Japanese War: A LWTV Campaign Game 5 — 
Theme Game 
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-37 
GM: Miles Reidy & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Russo-Japanese War, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Altar of Empires 
Description: Often described as World War Zero, the Russo Japanese 
War was a titanic struggle between a declining European power and an 
emerging Asian one which featured a terrifying glimpse of what WW1 
had instore.  Players will be resolve battles that occur over the course of 
a campaign being played out over the convention. The outcome of the 
table top fighting directly influences the progress of the campaign.  
 
S09:466  The Battle of Acre (1189)  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-45 
GM: Christopher Grau & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: Pendraken, Prize: Yes 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Lion Rampant 
Description: Join Guy de Lusignan and Salah ad-Din as we journey to the 
Battle of Acre in 1189. Almost two years before Richard the Leonheart 
arrived in the Holy Land, the Crusader States besieged the vital port city 
of Acre. Can Saladin lift the siege before more Frankish reinforcements 
arrive? Will King Guy escape the shame of Hattin? You will decide!  
 
S09:475  Into the Inferno, Stalingrad, Soviet Union, 15 September 1942  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-57 
GM: Alex Newhart & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Fireball Forward 
Description: The Wehrmachts 71st Division continued battering their 
way through the center of Stalingrad, attempting to reach the Volga and 
stop Soviet reinforcements into the city.  The green soldiers of the 13th 
Guards Division were ordered to cross the river on barges to help stop 
the German advance.  The Germans, supported by a few of the available 
tanks, pushed hard to reach the Volga and stop the landings.  Will they 
succeed?  
 
S09:491  The Battle of Britain Campaign - 3 — Theme Game 
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-46 
GM: Carl cardozo & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Fire in the Sky 
Description: The Battle of France is over - the Battle of Britain is about 
to begin. In this epic 5 part campaign, climb inside the cockpit for 
massive air battles in the skies above Britain to decide the fate of 
Operation Sealion. Play as The Few of RAF Fighter Commands 11 Group, 
or the elite pilots of the Luftwaffe. The aircraft lost and targets bombed 
carry over from session to session, culminating in the finale, the 
September 15 attack on London!  
 Uses the new WW2 air combat rules Fire in the Sky! 
 
S09:497  Amphibious assault on the Senkaku islands, 2024.  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-11 & HR-21 
GM: Martyn Kelly & WAMP 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Force on Force 
Description: The Chinese have landed a force on the contested Senkaku 
islands and are constructing a small military outpost.  The Japanese have 
responded by sending an amphibious force to take the islands.   There 
will be infantry, Su33MKK and V.22 Osprey aircraft, CH.47 Chinooks and 
AH64 Apache, LCAC hovercraft, amphibious vehicles, RIBs, mobile 
missile launchers, special operations teams, and naval gunfire support. 
Come and fight over imposing terrain with mountains, jungle and 
coastline. No food or drink at the table. 
 
S09:507  Arnhem Bridge: The Battles for the Bridge. Kampfgroup 
Brinkmann - 19. Sept. 1944 — Theme Game 
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Heritage: HR-12 & HR 13 
GM: Tom Uhl & DelVal 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Chain of Command 
Description: Elements of British 2nd Parachute Battalion led by Lt. Col. 
Frost, desperately cling to their hold on the structures surrounding the 
approach to Arnhem Bridge. A series of hastily assembled German SS 
Kampfgroups probe these defenses in hopes of denying further 
reinforcement of the tenuous allied perimeter just north of the bridge. 
Kids under 13 accompanied by Adult. 
 
S09:539  JOE HACK Britian 43 AD African Pincer  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage: HR-55 
GM: Joe Swartz & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: JOE HACK 
Description: As the Africans rumble forwards, devouring every British 
farm and village in their path, the British field every able bodied man to 
stop them. The British decide to let the Africans advance into their 
semicircle of infantry and chariots, who are waiting for the signal to 
charge. However, The British have failed to account for the Nubian light 
cavalry, who have come from behind in a pincer movement. rules taught 
& minors welcome with adult 
 
S09:542  Check Your Six! -  Propping up Korea — Theme Game 
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-43 
GM: Paul Meyer & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Korean War, Scale: 1/144th, Rules: Check Your Six! (Some House 
Rules) 
Description: An old Korean war movie mixes with a new one as Battle 
Hymn meets Devotion.  Rock Hudson and his wingman spot a USN strike 
in trouble and decide to dive in.  Mustangs and Corsairs and Spads and 
Laggs and Yaks    Oh My!  (Sorry, Dorothy) House rules provide the 
slightly higher level of detail appropriate for scenarios with smaller 
numbers of larger-scale aircraft .  Rules will be taught.  Not well-suited 
for very young players 
 
S09:593  South of Coutances  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-15 
GM: Christian Ovsenik & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 12mm, Rules: 'O' Group 
Description: A US Army battalion with armored support must take a V-1 
flying bomb installation in Normandy after landing at D-Day.  
 
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  49 | 69 
 
S09:595  Let No One Prefer Hunger to the Sword  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-25 
GM: Mark Huml & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Strength and Honour 
Description: October, 42 BCE: Brutus and Cassius, the assassins of 
Caesar, have consolidated their position in the East and are marching on 
Italy to restore the Republic. Antony and Octavian, successors to Caesar, 
have moved their forces to meet the Liberators at Philippi in Macedonia. 
36 legions have been concentrated beside 30,000 horsemen and 
numerous auxiliaries; the auspices have been read, and the lustrations 
performed. From one camp the watchword is: Liberty! From the other: 
Avenge Caesar! The fate of Rome hangs in the balance.  
 
S09:599  With Nothing Bigger Than a Bren Gun -  The Defense of the 
Van Limburg Stirum School at the Arnhem Road bridge, September 
18th/19th 1944  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-28 
GM: Edward Harding & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Chain of Command 
Description: From author Naill Cherry- Perhaps one of the best 
examples of fighting against the odds amongst all those that happened 
at Arnhem in September 1944 is the defense of the school at the bridge 
by elements of the 1st Parachute Squadron Royal Engineers and C 
Company of the 3rd Parachute battalion.  Refight some of that action in 
a Big Chain of Command game, as the British Paras can you hold on to 
the Northeast defense perimeter or as elements of Kampfgrupenn 
Knaust or Kampfgruppen Brinkman can you force the British away from 
the bridge and open the road south.  
 
S09:614  Red Devils/Green Devils  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-17 
GM: joe mcgrath & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Bragging rights! 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Chain of Command 
Description: Sicily, 1943, Operation Fustian: the capture of Primosole 
Bridge.  British paras "Red Devils" dropped onto the bridge overnight 
and wrested control from its Italian defenders.  Now, a hastily-
assembled kampfgruppe of Falschirmjagers (Green Devils) and armor 
support has rushed onto the scene to take it back. Can the Paras hold 
out until their relief column arrives? Can the FJs close with the enemy 
before the royal Navy's guns come to bear?  Only YOU can decide the 
outcome! New CoC players welcome - rules will be taught.  Kids can play 
with an accompanying grown up. Emphasis is on fun & camaraderie! 
 
S09:619  1814 - Cattle Rustling on the Patuxent  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-27 
GM: Patrick Berkebile & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: War of 1812, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Sharp Practice 2 
Description: While conducting a shore raid at Sneaky Point on the 
Patuxent River in Maryland, Capt Innes Cuppes, Royal Navy, has received 
news USN Commodore Barney & his Balmer Brawlers might be in the 
vicinity. Cuppes is determined to bring in this ruffian and scourge of the 
Royal Navy, not to mention take hidden arms stores, tobacco, cattle, etc. 
This game features Sharp Practice, a skirmish level black powder era 
game. 
This event is brought to you by Lard America.  
 
 
S09:622  Le Mesnil Herman: George Wilson and Operation COBRA  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 5 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-24 
GM: John Stapleton & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: (Big) Chain of Command 
Description: On the morning of 26 July 1944, Combat Command A (CCA) 
of the 2nd Armored Division crossed the line of departure marking its 
employment in Operation COBRA.  George Wilson, an infantry platoon 
leader in CCA had very nearly reached CCA's final objective on the first 
day.  Now on the morning of 27 July, Wilson and E Company 22nd 
Infantry are poised to seize their final day one objective, the crossroad 
town of Le Mesnil Herman. Can Wilson and CCA capture their objective?  
 
S09:625  1st Bull Run  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-16 
GM: Richard Jaekel & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Pickett's Charge 
Description: The First Battle of Bull Run. The battle was fought on July 
21, 1861. The Union Army was slow in positioning themselves, allowing 
Confederate reinforcements time to arrive by rail. Each side had about 
18,000 poorly trained and poorly led troops.  
 
S09:621  Waterloo - French Attack on the Eastern Flank  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 5 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-75 
GM: David Mattson & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage & Glory 
Description: French forces attack a strong British and allies line 
positioned on ridge east of the village of Waterloo.  It has rained all 
night and Napoleon has delayed his attack until noon. Is there time to 
break the British line before the Prussians arrive?  
 
S09:622  Battle of Peachtree Creek - Defense of the Union Center (July 
1864)  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 6 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-64 
GM: Joseph Dupre & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage and Glory 
Description: The Battle of Peachtree Creek was fought on 20 July 1864 
as part of the Atlanta Campaign and fought on the doorsteps of the City.  
It was the first major attack by Lt Gen john Bell Hood since taking over 
the Confederate Army of Tennessee against Maj Gen George Thomas' 
Union Army of the Cumberland.  This scenario will feature the fighting 
fought on the Union Center commanded by Maj Gen Hooker against 
Hardee's Confederate Corps. This battle will be fought in conjunction 
with the Peachtree Creek - Defense of the Union Right Scenario (same 
time, but adjacent game table). There will be a schedule break mid-
game for lunch. 
 
S09:638  Peach Tree Creek, 1864 - Defense of the Union Right  
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 6 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-74 
GM: Nigel Marsh & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Promotional Gift 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage&GloryII 
American Civil War 
Description: The battle of Peach Tree Creek was fought on 20 July 1864 
as part of the Atlanta Campaign and fought on the doorsteps of the city. 
It was the first major attack by Lt Gen John Bell Hood since taking over 
the Confederate Army of the Tennessee against Maj Gen George 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  50 | 69 
 
Thomas' Union Army of the Cumberland. This scenario will feature the 
fighting on the Union right flank between Hooker's XXth Corps and 
Stewart's Confederate Corps. This scenario will be fought in conjunction 
with the Peach Tree Creek defense of the Union Center scenario (same 
time but adjacent table). There will be a scheduled break mid-game for 
lunch. 
 
S09:664  Sword, Gold, Juno British D-Day — Theme Game 
Saturday, 9:00 AM, 5 hrs, Players: 7, Location: Heritage: HR-71 
GM: Thomas Harris & Pittsburgh Band of Gamers 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Breakthrough 
Description: In the early hours of June 6, !944 the vast allied armada 
approached the French coast.  The British owned three beaches and an 
airborne drop zone.  Will the Germans defending the beachhead be able 
to stop the overwealming Allied wave.   21st Panzer and the 12th SS 
division will be racing to plug any holes.   Come play Frank Chadwick's 
soon to be publised WWII game Breakthrough.  
 
S10:115  Battle of Nicopolis 1396  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Hickory B: HK-4 
GM: James Mauro  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 15mm, Rules: To the Strongest! 
Description: The defeat of the Serbs at Kosovo seven years earlier at the 
hands of the Ottomans has put all of Europe on high alert.  Now, a 
crusade is declared and King Sigismund of Hungary oversees a large, yet 
undisciplined and rebellious, multi ethnic army  to defeat the well-
organized, disciplined Ottoman army now led by sultan Bayezid. A 
crusader defeat will all but ensure  Ottoman hegemony in the Balkans 
and an even greater threat to all of Europe. The rules are fast paced, 
intuitive and easy to learn.  An innovative mechanism is used to activate 
units, potentially multiple times to move or fight during the same turn. 
 
S10:700  Civil War, 2024 — Theme Game 
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Hickory A: HK-2 
GM: Vito Pandolfo  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 6mm, Rules: Battle Field Ops! by 5th Epoch 
Publishing 
Description: In line with the movie Civil War, released in Spring 2024, 
this game will be a clash of two opposing forces within the borders of 
the United States. A rather timely (and maybe controversial) game! 
Some modern details are classified. Beginners are welcome. 
 
S10:696  Test of Honour - Shogun and the Last Samurai — Theme Game 
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 24, Location: Freedom Foyer: FP-1 
GM: David Hill  
Sponsor: Things from the Basement, Your Hobby Place Ltd. and the 
Metropolitan Wargamers., Prize: Vendor Discounts 
Period: Samurai, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Honour - Quick Play 
Description: For fans of the recent Shogun series and the less recent 
Last Samurai movie, this is the game for you. Test of Honour is a fun, 
fast-paced 28mm samurai skirmish game that I have further streamlined 
after dozens of convention games and hundreds of players. Don't be 
scared by the high player count, this is really six separate four-player 
scenarios played at the same time, with alternating activations (i.e. your 
turn is every other minute, not hour). With new scenarios, terrain and 
figures from the series and film, honor and glory await! Quick play rules 
(one piece of paper!) will be taught. Kids welcome with accompanying 
adult. All miniatures and materials provided, just bring a fun attitude. 
 
S10:148  Hell In A Very Small Place: The Battle of Dien Bien Phu-- The 
Day — Theme Game 
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FA-3 
GM: Greg McNa  
Sponsor: Age of Glory, Prize: Hand painted Age of Glory miniature for all 
participants 
Period: Post-WW2, Scale: 30mm, Rules: Modified Flames of War V3 
Description: May, 1954. The epic siege in the valley of Dien Bien Phu is 
nearing an end. Legionnaires, Colonial Paras, Vietnamese and troops 
from around the French Union are desperately hoping for a miracle after 
51 days of hell. This session will use daytime rules for a Vietminh assault 
to take the strongpoint of Eliane 2 and open up the heart of the base. 
Results of this day scenario will be used to set up later night time 
session. Rules are loosely based on Flames of War V3. Simple to learn. 
New to gaming? C'mon on down. This is easy. Kids welcome. Under 10 
with adult supervision, please. 
 
S10:252  Clan War-Open Play  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 6 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Hickory A: HK-1&HK-2 
GM: Brian Sherry  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: AEG's Clan War Daimyo Edition 
Description: Bring a 2000-point Clan War army for 2 rounds of open 
battles. We'll try to match people who haven't played before. Scenarios 
will be provided. Expect some surprises and magical mayhem.  
 
S10:107  Empire's Fall: Blood and Diesel Clash in Wulfsburg  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-2 
GM: Christopher Masucci  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: GUARDS second edition 
(Blood and Diesel Armies) 
Description: A daring US strike force is tasked with taking the remote 
village of Wulfsburg. Intelligence has spotted multiple weapons cashes 
and heavy German resistance in the area. Command either the US OSS 
or German defenders and control a variety of historical and fantastical 
units. All participants will receive a free model.  
 
S10:113  Last Kingdom, Battle of Cynuit — Theme Game 
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-13 
GM: Jeffrey Hoffman  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Dark Ages, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Ravenfeast 
Description: The year is 878 and Danish raiders have landed in Wessex.  
King Alfred is having none of it, and orders his lords to raise the fyrd to 
drive out the Danes.  Will you earn arm rings or be carried to corpse-
hall?  Reputation is all.  
 
S10:140  Hot Fuzz — Theme Game 
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-76 
GM: RICHARD CLAYDON  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Bolt Action 
Description: Nicholas Angel, a high-achieving Metropolitan Police officer 
is promoted to Sergeant, but his resentful colleagues arrange for him to 
be reassigned to the small rural town of Sandford, Gloucestershire, a 
regular "Village of the Year" winner. But he is soon frustrated by the 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  51 | 69 
 
mundanity of the village, his colleagues, the Sandford Police Service and 
Neighbourhood Watch Alliance (NWA) commitment to low crime 
statistics rather than law enforcement. Have you ever wondered why, 
why the crime rate in Sandford is so low, yet the accident rate is so 
high? Big city cop in a guns-blazing shoot out with the locals over control 
of the village. 
 
S10:207  Taiwan Strait Encounter  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-21 
GM: James Thompson  
Sponsor: I-94, Prize: NONE 
Period: Cold War, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: CY6JA 
Description: It's 1967 and tensions are running high between the 
Peoples Republic of China and the Republic of China, again. A flight of F-
104's are on a combat air patrol, when a flight of MiG-19's is sent to 
intercept them, and an air engagement takes place. No one under 16 
without a playing adult 
 
S10:209  Heavy Gear Blitz Supply Raid  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Vendor Hall: Dave's 
GM: Paul Campbell  
Sponsor: Dream Pod 9 & Dave’s Baggage Train, Prize: Free Mini 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 1/144, Rules: Heavy Gear Blitz 3.1 
Description: The Earth Administrative Zone has planned a mission to hit 
a Northern supply base. EAZ hopes is 2 fold. Destruction of the supply 
will help stalled an offensive push by Earth Forces. As well as driving a 
wedge into the Terra Nova defense forces with the illusion that 
Southern Block have attacked their Northern rivals. Combat drop is T 
minus 2 hours suit up & check your gears. Rules taught. Children with 
adult welcome. 
 
S10:218  Ogre Miniatures - Raid on Frederikshavn  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Grand Foyer: GF-5 
GM: Joseph Bloch  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Ogre Miniatures 
Description: A force of Combine GEVs have crossed the North Sea to 
rendezvous with an Ogre to attack the PanEuropean spaceport at 
Frederikshavn. Can the PanEuropeans hold out long enough for 
reinforcements to arrive?  
 
S10:224  The Battle of Ramelle — Theme Game 
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-34 
GM: Jon Moessner  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Fireball Forward 
Description: In the movie "Saving Private Ryan" a squad of US Army 
Rangers joins a group of the 101st Airborne in defense of the town of 
Ramelle against a superior force of German armor and infantry. Re-fight 
this classic movie battle and see if you can change the outcome!  
 
S10:362  Space Apes Must Die!  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Grand Foyer: GF-4 
GM: John Sears  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Star Schlock 
Description: The Galactic War rages! Striking back against the Space Ape 
invasion, a heroic force of Astroguards have made planetfall on the 
desolate moon Macaca-12. Orbital bombardment has already knocked 
out an ape artillery battery, but can the Astroguards secure the breach 
before Ape reinforcements arrive? A historicallyÂ accurate simulation of 
Z-grade sci-fi using the new Star Schlock rules system. Ages 12+. Rules 
taught at the table. 
 
S10:365  SKYNET IS FALLING — Theme Game 
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-1 
GM: Kyle Schulze  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Xenos Rampant 
Description: The year is 2049, the machines have risen up against 
mankind lead by the AI known as Skynet. After the nuclear apocalypse of 
what was called Judgement Day, one man arrived and taught the human 
race how to fight back against the machines, that man is John Connor. 
Recently the Resistance has shot down a Hunter-Killer drone, and sent a 
team to recover vital information from its data core. There have been no 
communications from the recon team since, and command fears the 
worst. A rescue mission for the Resistance is led by John Connor himself, 
while Skynet sends its Terminators to recover the drone who will get 
there first?  
 
S10:678  Glory, Action On James Island — Theme Game 
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Walnut: WN-2 
GM: Roxanne Patton & NOVAG 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 25mm, Rules: By Company Into Line 
(Brother Against Brother) 
Description: On July 16, 1863 near Grimball's Landing, a three-company 
picket line of the 54th Massachusetts attempts to fend off BG Johnson 
Hagood's Confederates from encircling the 10th Connecticut. COL 
Robert Gould Shaw (Broderick Crawford) leads a company in support of 
the picket line. Children under 18 welcome with playing adult. 
 
S10:679  Battle of Hanau  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 2 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Independence A: IN-1 
GM: Timothy Tilson & NOVAG 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Command and Colors 
Napoleonic 
Description: 30 October 1813. After losing the battle of Leipzig, 
Napoleon retreats towards the French base in Frankfurt, pursued by the 
Allied Army of Bohemia.  An Austro-Bavarian army under General Karl 
von Wrede takes up a position along the Kinzig River to try to stop him.  
Can Napoleon with his smaller force break the Allies and make good his 
escape.  Or will the Allies hold him until the main Allied army arrives?  
 
S10:701  Formosa Air Battle  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Independence A: IN-2 
GM: Robb Carper  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/200, Rules: Blood Red Skies 
Description: Its October 12, 1944, a dogfight in the skies occurs over 
Formosa. This is one of the last stands for Japan as they deploy their last 
remaining forces to defend the skies.  
Can the T Attack Force, with greater numbers, overwhelm the more 
experienced American pilots, or will this be another crushing loss greatly 
dwindling their remaining forces? This is a beginner friendly game. Aces 
will not be used. 
 
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  52 | 69 
 
S10:710  ESR Napoleonics-  Learn to Play  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3.5 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Vendor Hall: ESR 
GM: David Ensteness  
Sponsor: The Wargaming Company, LLC, Prize: Product discount for 
players at the Historicon 2024 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Et sans résultat! Series 3 (ESR 
Napoleonics) 
Description: Players will be acting as one of Napoleon's marshals- or one 
of their opponents-  commanding a corps-sized Force and coordinating it 
against their adversary. ESR emphasizes large scale events, not 
micromanagement. Game play focuses on maneuver and management 
of divisional-sized elements, not tactical decisions. We'll be playing at 
1"=150 yards, 1' to the mile. Players will be grouped by experience level, 
Quick Reference Guide available for download: 
https://thewargamingcompany.com/esr-players-guide/ 
 
S10:131  Crecy  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 5, Location: :  
GM: Tim Couper  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Hundred Years War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Resolve: 
Hundred Years War 
Description: Although the English seem to be well-set in a good 
defensive position, the many converging French troops could 
overwhelm them. Will the young Black Prince hold his nerve, or Edward 
have to save him? Will the French find their aristocracy can provide a 
fillip to them?  
 
S10:251  Waterloo:  d'Erlon's Assault June 18, 1815 — Theme Game 
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 5 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-63 
GM: Timothy Wilson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 15mm, Rules: General de Brigade 
Description: After allowing time for the ground to dry following 
torrential rains on the 17th, the French are attacking the Anglo-Allies at 
Mont Saint Jean.  Napoleon has ordered General d'Erlon, commander of 
the French I Corps, to launch a sledgehammer attack against the Allied 
center left.  The French reserve artillery have been bombarding the 
Allied center since 1pm -but most of them are on the reverse slope and 
cannot be seen.   General d'Erlon orders his divisions forward to sweep 
away Wellington's "infamous army"   Can you do better than history 
and break the Allied position?  Find out! 
 
S10:254  Aerodrome1.1(R) Aerial Combat Game  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 6 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
31 
GM: Richard Heffner  
Sponsor: Stanley F. Kubiak, Prize: Wings & Medals 
Period: World War I, Scale: 1/72nd, Rules: Aerodrome1.1(R) 
Description: WW1 Aerial Combat - Fast, Fun, Colorful. Earn your Wings 
(Real Medal Wings) like over 570 HMGS gamers over 1000 nationally. 
You must out think your opponents & shoot them down, (Friends-Family 
or someone you don't like-FUN) Games last about 1 hour. Players shoot 
down yield seat to waiting gamers. Youth & Female friendly, Rules Easy 
& taught- Great for first time Gamers Youth 12 & under only with 
agreement between Parent & GM 
 
 
 
S10:274  The Sword of Anubis - A Pennsylvania Pete Adventure — 
Theme Game 
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-22 
GM: Annemarie D'Amato  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Pulp, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Audacious Adventures - Home Brew 
Description: Pennsylvania Pete is searching for the mystical Sword of 
Anubis.  But Pete is not the sole person searching for this relic.  A whole 
host of adversaries are in the tomb looking for their fortune.  See who 
will possess the Sword of Anubis.  
 
S10:344  Trident versus Spearhead - 2.Panzer.D vs US 3.Armored.D  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 16, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
34 
GM: Stefan Sheckells  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Warlord Games - Achtung 
Panzer 
Description: August 1944. Armor for the 2nd Panzer Division attacks 
southwest toward Avranches in Operation Luttich (Mortain Counter-
Offensive) running into tanks from the US 3rd Armored Division. A few 
platoons of Panzer IVs versus a few platoons Shermans. Who will prevail 
in the meeting engagement?  
 
S10:393  Antietam - Burnside's Bridge, 17 September 1862  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 9, Location: Commonwealth: CW-52 
GM: John Mcconnell  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: By Company Into Line 
(Unpublished) 
Description: Maj. Gen. Ambrose Burnside's IX Corps was to demonstrate 
against the Confederate right as the Union main attack took place 
elsewhere. However, McClellan ordered Burnside to move forward later 
in the morning. Burnside first attempted to flank the Confederates with 
a movement south but they could not locate a suitable creek crossing. 
At the same time, two attempts to capture the bridge took place. The 
final assault began at around 1 pm. Please ensure that this game is 
scheduled on the same table as the same scenario to be submitted by 
John Wilk on Saturday at 4 pm. 
 
S10:270  Battle of Austerlitz  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-23 
GM: Steve Fratt  
Sponsor: FrattSpiel Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 6mm, Rules: FrattSpiel - The Victory Is Ours! 
Description: FrattSpiel Games presents its Napoleonic game similar to 
Small Deadly Space [ACW] 1" = 50yds, 1 figure = 25 men, These rules will 
be published in the fall by On Military Matters. Staff Officers serve many 
functions for maneuver, rallying, pushing attacks. Artillery forces units to 
test morale. Close Action dominates combat, driven by Cohesion ratings 
requiring very few charts. Plays more like a War College event - atypical - 
players will feel like they actually watch the battle unfold. For the player 
looking for something innovative. Steve Fratt presents The Victory Is 
Ours! a companion game to his Small Deadly Space ACW game from last 
year. Plays like a War College Event than typical con game. For players 
seeking new approach. 
 
 
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  53 | 69 
 
S10:122  Defend the Stockade 1663!  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-42 
GM: Steven Caselli  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Esopus Wars, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Modified Pikeman's Lament 
Description: The Year is 1663 and Dutch colonists have established a Fur 
Trading colony in upstate New York. Due to shady dealings and land 
swindles the local Esopus tribe has committed itself to driving them out! 
Play as the Dutch or the Esopus in this fast paced frontier game! Play as 
the Dutch settlers defending their Fur Trading stockade, or the Esopus 
tribe trying to drive them out! Fun fast paced rules in 54mm scale. Open 
to all. 
 
S10:688  ULTIMATE OVERLORD #5: "ALL-IN!" CAMPAIGN CLIMAX -- D-
DAY 80th Anniversary — Theme Game 
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 18, Location: Freedom A: FA-2 
GM: Peter Panzeri  
Sponsor: MINIATURE BUILDING AUTHORITY  (MBA), Prize: Players who 
participate in "ALL FIVE Ultimate Overlord Events" will receive a Special 
Award & Free Copy of the Book: OPERATION OVERLORD: D-DAY 1944 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: DIVISION-LEVEL ROMMEL-
RULES by Pete Panzeri: Available to all players FREE @Game-End! 
Description: FINAL-FIGHT for NORMANDY from CAEN to FALAISE. Monty 
& Patton's tank Divisions try to horde enough fuel to strike. Can they 
cut-off & catch ALL the Germans in NORMANDY?  Or will the Germans 
(despite allied air suhold tough enough to redeploy defenses and bleed 
the allies dry? Can both sides manipulate logistical troubles & avoid total 
disaster? Who will prevail? Who will collapse? Execute rapid & intense 
division-level attacks & counter-attacks in this exciting battle. Event 
starts with RESPECTS RENDERED to our WW2 VETS. A ONE-TIME-ONLY 
SCENARIO at HISTORICON'24:  DON'T MISS IT!  ***ALSO DON'T MISS 
War College Presentation "DISASTER at D-DAY" 5pm Thur  in 
Montgomery House. Hosted by DUKE SEIFRIED FOUNDATION. 
 
S10:351  The Consortium: Fantasy Adventures in the New World  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Vendor Hall: Consortium 
GM: Brandi Mullen  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: The MVP will receive a soft cover copy of our 
game book 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Consortium 
Description: We Arcanites are seeking bold explorers to assist us in our 
Guild activities. We have discovered a portal that is interfering with our 
rituals. Will you take it upon yourselves to destroy it? We will offer a 
generous reward when you return to this Great City. Recommended age 
to play is 13+ 
 
S10:406  Questing Knights Ride Forth — Theme Game 
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-86 
GM: Edward Watts & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Fistful of Lead - Might and Melee 
Description: Knights venture out from Camelot to seek adventure and 
gain renown in Arthur's cinematic England. Rules taught at table. 
 
S10:460  Viking Raid on Iona Abbey, 825 CE  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-47 
GM: Erik Johnson & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Dark Ages, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Ravenfest 
Description: Ships on the horizon- to the walls! The peaceful Scots-Irish 
abbey of St. Columba is under attack; the monks must protect their 
divine treasures and make the pagans pay for this! The Vikings are doing 
what they do best- raiding and pillaging the British Isles! Players will 
control the Viking raiders or Scots-Irish defenders in this skirmish-level 
game. The Viking players will seek to extract as much livestock and loot 
as possible, and the Monks will seek to preserve their abbey and escape 
with their treasures. Can you survive Dark Age Britain? Uses Ravenfeast 
by Little Wars: fast-play rules are taught and all are welcome. Dice, 
miniatures, and all materials provided. 
 
S10:462  Assault on Kofta Village, 2003  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-36 
GM: Turhan Buckley & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 28mm, Rules: FUBAR 
Description: A combined force of SAS and Iraqi SWAT assault the 
insurgent held village of Kofta, where a WMD-fabrication site is 
suspected of being located. Can they achieve their objective before 
being overwhelmed by insurgent fighters? What else will they find on 
their mission they weren't prepared for? Dice, miniatures, and all other 
materials provided - newbies welcome! 
 
S10:483  War of the Roses: The Battle of Mortimer's Cross!  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-56 
GM: Mark Fastoso & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Resolve 
Description: Richard, The Duke of York, is dead-cut down at the Battle of 
Towton.  His son, Edward of March, assumes the title and raises and 
army in Wales and marches on London.  A Lancastrian army led by 
Jasper Tudor takes a stand at Mortimers Cross to stop him.   Edward saw 
three suns rising on the morning of the battle and rallied his men to 
fight!  Victory or Death! Fun, fast-paced mediaeval game! Come and join 
the guys from Mark's Game Room! 
 
S10:533  BRAZEN CHARIOTS  Will be taking part in the coming 
festivities! — Theme Game 
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-54 
GM: Adam Wine & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Certificates 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: BRAZEN CHARIOTS Tank 
Battle Game 
Description: Based on the 1953 war movie The Desert Rats. It is Nov. 
1941 and Rommel has been besieging Tobruk for 234 days. The British 
Operation Crusader is underway; its goal to destroy Rommel  s armour 
and lift the siege of Tobruk. The newly promoted Lt. Col. MacRoberts 
and his brigade 9th Australian Infantry are ordered to hold Ed Duda 
ridge for two days.  But Rommel wants Ed Duda as well and orders his 
besieging forces to destroy the relief force and retake the ridge.  
 
S10:551  Car Wars - Death Race 2074  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-6 
GM: Frank Osborn & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and Gaming 
Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Future, Scale: 12mm, Rules: Car Wars 6th Edition and House 
rules. 
Description: Hit and run driving is no longer a felony, it's the national 
sport! Score points for reaching checkpoints. Score even more points for 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  54 | 69 
 
"soft" targets. Who will win this year's race? Who cares as long as blood 
is spilled on the highway! Rules will be taught.  
 
S10:561  Into The Darkness: ADEPTUS IMPERIALIS: Battle of Gamma 
Decima  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-8 
GM: James Nicholson & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and 
Gaming Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 10mm, Rules: SPACE MARINE, Adeptus Imperialis 
and House rules. 
Description: Horus Lupercal, Warmaster of the Emperor's armies, has 
turned upon his gene-father and sent the Imperium spiralling into 
bloody civil war. Half of the great Space Marine Legions have sided with 
the traitorous Warmaster, and countless cohorts of the Solar Auxilia, 
Knight Households, and Titan Legions march at his side. Now brother 
fights brother as the Imperium's vast armies tear one another apart in a 
cataclysm of fire and blood. An age of darkness descends, the likes of 
which have never been witnessed before. Come join us in this custom 
game rules will be taught.  
 
S10:567  The Battle of Isandlwana — Theme Game 
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 9, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-1 
GM: Dave Waxtel & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Men Who Would Be Kings 
Description: The Battle of Isandlwana on January 22, 1879 was the first 
major encounter in the war between the British Empire and the Zulu 
Nation. Eleven days after the British invaded Zululand, a Zulu force of 
some 20,000 warriors attacked a portion of the British main column 
consisting of 1,800 British, colonial, and native troops. Children 
particiption encouraged! 
 
S10:626  Fire & Fury does World War I AGAIN, August 1914  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 5 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-63 
GM: Wilbur Gray & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Order of the Pink Pansy 
Period: World War I, Scale: 12mm, Rules: Age of Valor Before the Leaves 
Fall 
Description: The Belgians have held in Northern Flanders, so the 
Germans shift their main attack South. More Belgians and an entire 
French cavalry corps await them, ready to rumble. The Hun have 
machine guns, but the French have ELAN! Its Napoleonic Fire & Fury for 
the Great War, and you can check out images from our previous game at 
https://tinyurl.com/AOV-Great-War-1914 . Rules taught, beginners 
welcome, experience with Age of Eagles II or Fire & Fury helpful, but not 
required. 
 
S10:629  Conflict at Kastornoe, 1919  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-72 
GM: Michael Pierce & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Inter-War, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Red Struggle (home) 
Description: By 1919, the Russian Civil War had raged for 2 years.  The 
White Army's offensive had gained great swaths of the Ukraine, but 
their momentum was waning.  The Red Army struck back to capture the 
important railroad town of Kasternoe.  
 
 
S10:637  Aspern Essling, May 21 1809  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 8 hrs, Players: 15, Location: Heritage: HR-65 
GM: David Bonk & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage and Glory Napoleonic 
Computer Moderated 
Description: Join us for the recreation of Napoleon's desperate defense 
of the villages of Aspern and Essling in the face of overwhelming odds. 
French players will need to hold on to the villages and protect the 
bridges as the Austrian Army throws itself at the French defenders. The 
villages will occupy each end of a 15' table with hundreds of French and 
Austrian infantry and cavalry maneuvering across the fields.  
 
S10:649  Battletech - Grinder 1  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 2 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-9 
GM: Mark Yingling & Battletech 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 6mm, Rules: Battletech - Total Warfare 
Description: The Grinder is a free for all Battletech Demo game where 
new (or returning) players will be taught using the Introductory Rules. 
You start out with a Light Mech and as you die, you advance up to the 
next weight class. All materials, miniatures and dice will be provided. 
Beginner Friendly & Rules Taught. 
 
S10:660  Into The Darkness: WARHAMMER 40K: Battles  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-7 
GM: Lorenzo O'Branty & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and 
Gaming Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: WARHAMMER 40K and House rules. 
Description: A new edition makes planet fall. Ravening aliens strike at a 
desperate Imperium in the new edition of Warhammer 40,000. Discover 
one of the world's most popular miniatures games. Come join us in  
learning this new edition of Warhammer 40,000. All are welcome and all 
materials will be provided.  
 
S10:671  Mein Twinkie  
Saturday, 10:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-31 
GM: Tu Tran & ODGW 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Mein Zombie 
Description: The situation is dire!  It's catastrophic!  Someone has eaten 
the last Twinkie!!!  Images of the golden sponge cake with its cream 
filling are swirling in your mind.  Is it worth it to venture out and fight 
through the zombie hordes just for those spongy, yellow tastes of 
heaven?  Absolutely!!  It’s time to gear up for a Twinkie supply run.  
Come join us for some lighthearted, cooperative fun as we venture out 
to search for these delicious treats. Rules Taught 
Beginners Welcome 
Children under 12 with an adult only. 
 
S11:358  Yuletide in Ukraine  
Saturday, 11:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Freedom A: FA-8 
GM: Robert Franklin  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: ThunderBolt! 
Description: The Russian 126th Separate Coastal Defense Brigade 
maintains a tenuous hold on the farms north of Kherson.  A belt of 
mines and brand new conscripts in the 109th Donetsk's People's 
Republic (DPR) regiment serve as a first line of defense.  The brigade's 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  55 | 69 
 
remaining infantry and armor are in position to halt the advance of the 
Ukrainian 17th Tank Brigade which is rapidly pushing south through the 
rural areas to liberate Kherson. This scenario examines the potential 
battle between these forces if the Russian High Command would not 
have abandoned Kherson and retreated west across the Dnipro river in 
late 2022. The rules will be taught. 
 
S11:249  The Alamo 1836 — Theme Game 
Saturday, 11:00 AM, 5 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-62 
GM: David Good  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: 19th Century, Scale: 15mm, Rules: The Alamo Ruleser 
Description: Join us for impressive final assault on the famous missionon 
in 1:1 true 15mm scale. Join the Texians in their heroic defence or the 
Soldados in their equally heroic assault on the walls of the mission 
complex.  
Over 800 figures including David Crockett of course. This spectacular 
game is featured on Little Wars  
 
S11:635  Prussian Assault on the French Left Flank-Battle of 
Froschwiller  
Saturday, 11:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-73 
GM: Thomas Garnett & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: G&G Light Pen 
Period: Franco-Prussian War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Carnage and Glory 
Description: By noon on August 6th, the Prussian V Corps detected a 
weakness on the French right flank of their I Corps.  Moving rapidly, the 
Prussian 21st Division supported by corps cavalry attacked the right of 
the French 2nd Division Young Folks 12+ with an adult 18+ are welcome 
 
S12:158  Rapp 'n Raupenhelms, 1809  
Saturday, 12:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FA-9 
GM: Peter Anderson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Field of Battle, 3rd edition, by 
Brent Oman 
Description: This fictional engagement imagines that, in the aftermath 
of the Battle of Eckmuhl, the Emperor creates an ad hoc Corps 
composed of troops from Bavaria, Wurttemberg, Baden, and Hessen-
Darmstadt, and places his German speaking ADC, General Jean Rapp, in 
command, with orders to defeat Austrian General Hiller. Youth age 12 
and up welcome with a playing adult, 15+ fine on their own 
 
S12:302  Tanks for the Apocalypse — Theme Game 
Saturday, 12:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 7, Location: Grand Foyer: GF-3 
GM: Christopher Jachimowicz  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Tanks for the Apocalypse 
(Snarling Badger Studios) 
Description: July 16, 1945. The world's first nuclear explosion sets off a 
concussive wave of fission wiping out 98% of life on Earth. Survivors in 
Lima, Ohio commandeer Sherman tanks from the Lima Locomotive 
Works and use them to protect the town. But they aren't the only ones 
with tanks. Unsavory gangs of survivors have their own tanks, competing 
with each other for Earth's limited resources. Players will pilot one of 
these tanks, destroying opponents' tanks and taking resources for 
themselves. Pilot a Sherman tank competing for resources in 1945 post-
apocalyptic Lima, Ohio. Fast play, easy-to-learn rules. Recommended for 
ages 10 and up. 
 
 
S12:137  0200hrs and the Last Crusade — Theme Game 
Saturday, 12:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-32 
GM: Jeff Whitlock  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Pulp, Scale: 28mm, Rules: 0200 hrs 
Description: Can indiana Jones and friends stop the Nazis from getting 
the Cup of Christ. Come play and see if Dr Jones and friends can achieve 
this mission. kids 12 and under are welcome with a adult. 
 
S12:215  D-Day, Day of Days June 6th 1944  
Saturday, 12:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
35 
GM: Bryan Leshinskie  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: THE PRIZE IS THE SUPRIZE 
Period: World War II, Scale: Axis & Allies Figures, Rules: Axis & Allies D-
Day Game Modified (sort of) 
Description: The Longest Day of Days June 6th 1944. The Allies launch a 
massive invasion to breach Hitler's Atlantic Wall and liberate Europe.  All 
are welcome to play with no one ever turned away.  
 
S12:101  Red Oktober Factory Assault  
Saturday, 12:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-24 
GM: Kris Johnson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Yes, Warlord Games 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Bolt Action v.2 
Description: It's October 1942 and the German 6th Army is battling to 
complete their conquest of Stalingrad by capturing the Red Oktober 
Steel Plant. The Soviet 39th Guards Division has turned the enormous 
Martenovskii Shop into a veritable fortress. The Wehrmacht's 79th 
Infantry Division, supported by panzers and Jager troops, seek to wrest 
control from the outnumbered Soviet defenders. Bolt Action is fast-
paced and easy to learn, fun for beginners and veterans. Players under 
14 welcome with an adult. 
 
S12:515  Retreat from Orsha June 26th 1944  
Saturday, 12:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-53 
GM: Robert Schaible & Yellow Worm Gaming Society 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Hail of Fire 
Description: Requests to remove a Fester platz (fortress city) 
designation from Orsha has been denied by Hitler. Gen. von 
Tippelskirch, realizing the insanity of the situation lies to OKH while 
ordering his men to retreat back towards Minsk. Will they escape before 
the Soviet 2nd Guards Tank Corps tightens the noose? New players 
welcome, rules taught.  
 
S12:519  Into Castle Wolfenstein  
Saturday, 12:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Heritage: HR-42 
GM: Larry Morris & Yellow Worm Gaming Society 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: DOOM 
Description: A motley squad of heroes and heroines invade the inner 
sanctum of the Third Reich in the attempt to end the Evil Plans of Adolf 
Hitler permanently. They just have the fight through the latest 
experimental technologies and fierce (and scantily clad) ZZs to end the 
threat once and for all.  
 
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  56 | 69 
 
S12:650  Battletech - Grinder 2  
Saturday, 12:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-9 
GM: Mark Yingling & Battletech 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 6mm, Rules: Battletech - Total Warfare 
Description: The Grinder is a free for all Battletech Demo game where 
new (or returning) players will be taught using the Introductory Rules. 
You start out with a Light Mech and as you die, you advance up to the 
next weight class. All materials, miniatures and dice will be provided. 
Beginner Friendly & Rules Taught. 
 
S13:319  The Battle of Hydaspes — Theme Game 
Saturday, 1:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FA-4 
GM: Rodney Cain  
Sponsor: Washington Grand Company, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Triumph! 
Description: This is Alexander the Great's final battle in 326 BC against 
King Porus.  It took place on the banks of the Hydaspes River in Punjab, 
as part of Alexander's Indian campaign. It was likely his most costly 
battle even though it was a decisive victory for the Macedonians where 
the phalanx met massed elephants for the first time in battle. This battle 
will be fought using Triumph! Rules for Tabletop Battles Ancient and 
Medieval.  Experienced and new players are welcome.  Rules will be 
taught! 
 
S13:242  Tora! Tora! Tora! — Theme Game 
Saturday, 1:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-11 
GM: Patrick Woodard  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:1200th, Rules: Table Air Combat - 
Modified 
Description: December 7, 1941...a date which will live in infamy... or will 
it? Take on the roles of the Japanese aerial strike force bound for Pearl 
Harbor! Take command of the 250+ aircraft present that morning over a 
stunning 1:2400 recreation of the harbor. Cripple the American Pacific 
Fleet, bag yourself a battlewagon, and earn the favor of the Emperor!  
 
S13:702  Basic Impetus - Punic Wars  
Saturday, 1:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Grand Foyer: GF-3 
GM: Steven Holowienko  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Basic Impetus 
Description: Multi-Player participation game for the Punic Wars section 
of Basic Impetus.  Battle between Carthage and the Seleucid Empire. 
Rules, dice and models will be provided.  No experience necessary.  
 
S13:192  Donnybrook in Outremer  
Saturday, 1:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW23 
GM: Tod Kershner  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Your miserable skins 
Period: Medieval, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Big Pig Wars. 
Description: In the 12th century two Norman crusader kingdoms in the 
levant go to war.  Both have Saracen allies.  A murderous blood fight will 
ensue in glorious 54mm, the scale of the gods!  Easy rules.  
 
 
 
 
S13:225  The Cursed Diamond of the Romanovs, Treasure-Hunting in 
the Russo-Polish War - Pripet Marshes, 1920  
Saturday, 1:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Commonwealth: CW-74 
GM: Jeffrey Wasileski  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Discount Coupon 
Period: Pulp, Scale: 28mm, Rules: When Nightmares Come, modified 
Description: As Polish and Ukrainian armies advance on Kyiv, the 
Bolsheviks desperately evacuate the city, including a special train 
carrying a trove of the late Czarina's gems.  Among the jewels was the 
famed Black Diamond of Astrakhan, looted from an ancient temple and 
said to have driven Ivan the Terrible Mad.  It was hoped that the occult 
power of this jewel could be harnessed for Revolution. In the confused 
evacuation, the train was accidentally diverted to a minor line that 
skirted the dismal Pripet Marshes, where it disappeared. Various groups 
now search the area of its last sighting.  But what forces have snatched it 
and what secrets does it hold?  
 
S13:382  But wait, there's more  
Saturday, 1:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Independence B: IN-4 
GM: William Stec  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 30mm, Rules: Plasma Burns (A fanmade Halo game 
system) 
Description: After crashlanding on a deserted world, survivors of a 
Human vs Covenant ship skirmish converge upon an apparently 
operational comm relay, looking to signal for help.  But when they both 
arrive and prepare to fight over the comm relay, it appears that there 
are Banished forces already present.  Can either side defeat the 
Banished forces and use the comm relay to call for help, or will they 
leave their bones for the scavengers to pick? 
This is a demonstration game of Plasma Burns, a fan-created Halo 30mm 
scale skirmish game, which is still under development. No children under 
10 please.  Children aged 10-12 with playing adult present for the whole 
game is fine. 
 
S13:188  Aerodrome(R) 2.0 - Masters of the Air: Bomber Combat Over 
Germany  
Saturday, 1:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Independence: IN-5 
GM: Stanley Kubiak  
Sponsor: Aerodrome(R) Aerial Combat Games, Prize: Wings & Medals 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:144 & 1:200, Rules: Aerodrome(R) 2.0 - 
World War 2 Aerial Combat Game 
Description: The German Luftwaffe takes on a stream of  B-17 bombers 
over the Reich, using the easy-to-learn, easy-to-play Aerodrome(R) 2.0 
WW2 Aerial Combat Game ruleset. Players fly Me109 and FW190 
fighters in attack against GameMaster-controlled bombers that are 
defended by American P-51 Mustangs fighters. There *may* be Flak! 
Rules explained, charts and aircraft provided. As always, Wings and 
Medals for Victories and Valor. Spouse- and Female-Friendly Game. 
Under age 15 only with playing adult, previous experience or GM 
permission. 
 
S13:123  French Florida  
Saturday, 1:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-42 
GM: Shelby Thompson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Age of Piracy, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Pikeman's Lament Modified 
Description: Play either as French Huguenots or Spanish Conquistadors 
trying to get a foothold on the Florida Coast. Come join a fun & fast 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  57 | 69 
 
54mm game playing either as the French or Spanish in Florida during the 
age of exploration! 
 
S13:287  Close Action! - Saturday's Fleet Battle  
Saturday, 1:00 PM, 6 hrs, Players: 16, Location: Monty House: MH-2 
GM: Lee Girer  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Honor and Glory!!! 
Period: Age of Sail, Scale: 1:1200th, Rules: Close Action! by Mark 
Campbell 
Description: In 1781 the French navy was instrumental in helping the 
American rebels secure their independence.  One of the key events 
leading up to victory at Yorktown occurred on 16 March 1781, when 
British and French squadrons fought a battle off Cape Henry, at the 
mouth of Chesapeake Bay.  Luckily for America, the French Navy was at 
its peak in 1781, and the two sides were evenly matched.  The result was 
a French tactical victory;  it is also one of the most popular scenarios in 
the entire CA canon!  Come play a realistic and fun Age of Sail battle! 
Beginners welcome, rules taught. Kid Friendly Game. All materials 
provided, please bring your own courage... 
 
S13:312  Pickett's Charge - The War Game — Theme Game 
Saturday, 1:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Commonwealth: CW--
41,51,61 
GM: Jim Purky  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Never Call Retreat 
Description: You have seen the movie Gettysburg and now is your 
chance to replay Pickett's Charge in epic scale with 54mm figures and a 
cast of over 1,200 figures. Will you lead the Confederate charge up 
Cemetery Ridge or stand fast with Winnie Hancock and turn back the 
rebel tide? Victory points allow for either side to win the game. It's good 
ground with easy to learn rules and fast play. Game Hosts: Jim Purky and 
Bill Molyneaux 
 
S13:435  Armies for Kids - American Civil War  
Saturday, 1:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-73 
GM: Eric Schlegel & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Two armies and materials to run a game 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Milk & Cookies 
Description: Yanks and Rebs battle for control of a vital crossroads 
somewhere in Virginia. At the conclusion of the game, all players get to 
take home 2 armies and various items to run their own games at home. 
Adult helpers welcome with a playing child. 
 
S13:492  The Battle of Britain Campaign - 4 — Theme Game 
Saturday, 1:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-46 
GM: Carl cardozo & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Fire in the Sky 
Description: The Battle of France is over - the Battle of Britain is about 
to begin. In this epic 5 part campaign, climb inside the cockpit for 
massive air battles in the skies above Britain to decide the fate of 
Operation Sealion. Play as The Few of RAF Fighter Commands 11 Group, 
or the elite pilots of the Luftwaffe. The aircraft lost and targets bombed 
carry over from session to session, culminating in the finale, the 
September 15 attack on London!  
 Uses the new WW2 air combat rules Fire in the Sky! 
 
 
 
S13:576  Return to the Forbidden City  
Saturday, 1:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-2 
GM: Mike Lung & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Fistful of Lead Wasteland Warriors 
Description: For generations, the City of Ancients has been feared and 
taboo. No one would go near the place because those who did quickly 
sickened and died horrible deaths. But recently, a few foolhardy souls 
have gone there and survived. They have brought back tales of ancient 
wonders and incredible treasures waiting there for the taking. Are you 
willing to lead your brave band into this devastated post-apocalyptic city 
to gain fabulous riches and fame?  
 
S13:665  Battle of Sardis  
Saturday, 1:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-61 
GM: Frank Chadwick & Pittsburgh Band of Gamers 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Epic Conquest 
Description: In 332 BCE, Alexander's generals in Asia Minor broke the 
last resistance of the Persian army threating Alexander's 
communications with Greece and Macedonia.  Actual details of the 
battles are not recorded but we know they revolved around control of 
Sardis. We have used circumstantial evidence to recreate the armies and 
will be refighting the most important of those battles.  Come try out 
Franks Chadwick's new ancient rules. Epic Conquest.  
 
S14:697  Test of Honour - Shogun and the Last Samurai — Theme Game 
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 24, Location: Freedom Foyer: FP-1 
GM: David Hill  
Sponsor: Things from the Basement, Your Hobby Place Ltd. and the 
Metropolitan Wargamers., Prize: Vendor Discounts 
Period: Samurai, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Honour - Quick Play 
Description: For fans of the recent Shogun series and the less recent 
Last Samurai movie, this is the game for you. Test of Honour is a fun, 
fast-paced 28mm samurai skirmish game that I have further streamlined 
after dozens of convention games and hundreds of players. Don't be 
scared by the high player count, this is really six separate four-player 
scenarios played at the same time, with alternating activations (i.e. your 
turn is every other minute, not hour). With new scenarios, terrain and 
figures from the series and film, honor and glory await! Quick play rules 
(one piece of paper!) will be taught. Kids welcome with accompanying 
adult. All miniatures and materials provided, just bring a fun attitude. 
 
S14:108  Empire's Fall: Blood and Diesel Clash in Wulfsburg  
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-2 
GM: Christopher Masucci  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: GUARDS second edition 
(Blood and Diesel Armies) 
Description: A daring US strike force is tasked with taking the remote 
village of Wulfsburg. Intelligence has spotted multiple weapons cashes 
and heavy German resistance in the area. Command either the US OSS 
or German defenders and control a variety of historical and fantastical 
units. All participants will receive a free model.  
 
S14:198  VSF: Raiders of Claw and Steam — Theme Game 
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-4 
GM: Gabriel Landowski  
Sponsor: MHWA, Prize: NONE 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  58 | 69 
 
Period: Victorian Science Fiction, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Damned Human 
Race 
Description: When debris from an ancient alien space fleet seeds the 
solar system in 1863, a lot of weird and wonderful things emerge! Take 
part as towering dinosaurs and thundering steam walkers struggle for 
ultimate control while the the colonial powers of Europe play out the 
same old game but with a new twist! MHWA: Kid friendly 
 
S14:229  In The Heart of The Sea — Theme Game 
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Comonwealth: CW-75 
GM: Charles Morfin  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Prizes awarded 
Period: 19th Century Whaling, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Modified THAR SHE 
BLOWS 
Description: Make sail from Nantucket, Massachusetts to the wide open 
ocean in search of valuable whale oil! Whaling was a multimillion-dollar 
business. Be at the helm of the USS Essex or the USS Pequod with your 
favorite characters from the movie "In The Heart Of The Sea" , based on 
a true story, or your favorite characters from the literary work: Moby 
Dick! represented in 15mm with their ships and whaleboats! Venture 
through fog and icebergs to bring back barrels of whale oil! The stories 
are true! Beware of the white whale beast who brings peril to all 
whaling ships and its crews! All are welcome! Children are accompanied 
by adult.  Movie memorabilia and souvenirs will be available. 
Prizes will be awarded for participation and for Best Whaling Captain. 
 
 
S14:300  Heavy Gear RPG part 3  
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-5 
GM: James Faltum  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: free plastic mini 
Period: SciFi, Scale: Other, Rules: Heavy Gear 4th Edition Roleplaying 
Game 
Description: In the distant future war rages on the planet known as 
Terra Nova.  Piloted robots known as Heavy Gears have become the 
premiere fighting machine of choice. Join the fight for honor or just 
survival. 
Part 2: in TN 1950 (6145 AD), The War for Terra Nova has begun as Earth 
returns with a new invasion force.  Can an old band of misfits defend 
their oasis tower home against Earth newest invasion until help and 
supplies come? Rules taught and all materials provided. 
 
S14:348  Trailer Park Warlords of the Apocalypse - Roadhouse 
Rendezvous  
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Grand Foyer: GF-2 
GM: Michael Stoneburner  
Sponsor: Bad Goblin Games, Prize: Drink Koozie 
Period: Future, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Trailer Park Warlords of the 
Apocalypse 
Description: Once per year, rival gangs set aside their differences and 
gather for the Roadhouse Rendezvous, one of the few "holidays"  
observed in the Mega Trailer Parks. More often than not, these 
gatherings quickly degenerate into a scene of violence and mayhem. 
This particular gathering is no exception.  
 
S14:711  ESR Napoleonics-  Learn to Play  
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 3.5 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Vendor Hall: ESR 
GM: David Ensteness  
Sponsor: The Wargaming Company, LLC, Prize: Product discount for 
players at the Historicon 2024 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Et sans résultat! Series 3 (ESR 
Napoleonics) 
Description: Players will be acting as one of Napoleon's marshals-  or 
one of their opponents-  commanding a corps-sized Force and 
coordinating it against their adversary. ESR emphasizes large scale 
events, not micromanagement. Game play focuses on maneuver and 
management of divisional-sized elements, not tactical decisions. We'll 
be playing at 1"=150 yards, 1' to the mile. Players will be grouped by 
experience level, Quick Reference Guide available for download: 
https://thewargamingcompany.com/esr-players-guide/ 
 
S14:283  Bavaria Ablaze: Anvil into Hammer  
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-14 
GM: Richard McMahon  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 6mm, Rules: Soldats de l'Empire! (formerly 
Houserules Napoleonics by Brian Stokes) 
Description: Napoleon has returned to correct Berthier's blunders. 
Crossing the Isar, he is driving the stunned Austrian army northwards. 
Davout, who had been put in peril, is now ordered to turn his III Corps 
about and attack the leading elements of the Hauptarmee, Rosenberg 
and Hohenzollern, to prevent the Austrians from reaching Regensburg 
to cross the Danube to safety. Soldats de l'Empire! attempts to answer 
the question of how, often outnumbered, French forces were still able 
to accomplish extraordinary feats. Command flexibility, tactical agility 
and skirmishing are key factors. The Austrians counter with numbers, 
firepower and dogged determination. This will be the 2nd of 2 slots for 
this game. With the agreement of all players, the 2nd slot may be a 
continuation of the first. 
New players will be taught the rules. 
 
S14:208  Sands of the Sudan  
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Commonwealth: CW-43 
GM: Walter Leach  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Sands of the Sudan 
Description: The Forces of the Mahdi have surrounded and cut off a 
Scottish Battalion defending a fortified outpost in the Sudan. Your 
orders are to lead a relief column and extricate the Highlanders  
Your forces consist of the Camel Corps, British Battalion, Egyptian 
Battalion, Battery of artillery, several squadrons of cavalry and Gatling 
gun.  Can you get there n time? 
 
S14:290  Strasbourg AD 357: The Battle for Gaul  
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-53 
GM: Drake Wizza  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: To The Strongest by Simon Miller 
Description: Refight the battle of Strasbourg 357 AD in glorious 28mm 
with over a thousand miniatures using Simon Miller's "To The 
Strongest"  ruleset. The fate of Rome hangs in the balance as Germanic 
hordes have crossed the Rhine and look to establish a permanent 
presence in the Empire. The young and untested Julian seeks to be 
worthy of the heroes of old and crush the German menace with his army 
of veteran legions. Meanwhile, the canny Chnodomar, high king of the 
Alamanni Tribe seeks to add to his wealth and power. The fate of Rome 
hangs in the balance, who will be victorious? The disciplined Romans or 
the wild Barbarians? Refight the battle of Strasbourg 357 AD in glorious 
28mm with over a thousand miniatures using Simon Miller’s “To The 
Strongest” ruleset. The fate of Rome hangs in the balance! 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  59 | 69 
 
S14:690  CUSTER & CRAZY HORSE at LITTLE BIG HORN 1876 — Theme 
Game 
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 24, Location: Freedom A: FA-2 
GM: Peter Panzeri  
Sponsor: BRIGADE GAMES PLAINS WARS FIGURE LINE, Prize: FREE COPY 
of GAME RULES & SCENARIO made available to ALL Participants after 
completion of the game -- PLUS Trophy for "Most-Feared-Enemy" & 
other prizes from our sponsors. 
Period: PLAINS WARS - WILD WEST, Scale: 25mm, Rules: CRAZY HORSE 
RULES! by Pete Panzeri -- Available to all players FREE @Game-End. 
Description: Join Author of LITTLE BIGHORN books & CRAZY HORSE 
RULES Pete Panzeri for ~THE~ BATTLE OF ~THE~ LITTLE BIGHORN: aka 
"CUSTER'S LAST STAND. "Undeniably the most controversial battle in ALL 
of American military history, and  the most well-known battle of the 
American West."  Fight an intense, bloody & fast-paced game of 
Random-death & confusion! (Plus Hats, cheers, music and such 
mayhem.) What's not to love?  A WAR-Game, A SURVIVAL-Game. And a 
LESSON for all!  Hosted by the DUKE SEIFRIED FOUNDATION. A ONE-
TIME-ONLY GAME at HISTORICON'24  *DON’T MISS IT!   **ALSO DON'T 
MISS War College Presentation: "CRUCIAL KEYS to LITTLE BIGHORN & 
ROSEBUD" 5PM FRI at MONTGOMERY HOUSE. 
 
S14:352  The Consortium: Fantasy Adventures in the New World  
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Vendor Hall: Consortium 
GM: Brandi Mullen  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: The MVP will receive a soft cover copy of our 
game book 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: The Consortium 
Description: Dear oh dear! My oh my! Oh! Well, you look like just the 
kind of strong, adventurous ...adventurer we might be looking for! We 
have installed a new watchtower, but we don't have the skill or 
knowledge to defend it. Would you be so kind as to defend it until The 
Consortium sends proper resources?  We are but the humble Artisans 
Circle. We will reward you with what we can, but some people might 
even do it out of the kindness of their hearts...for the good of The 
Consortium and The Great City! Recommended age to play is 13+ 
 
S14:412  We Have to Stop Bloody Meeting Like This... — Theme Game 
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-72 
GM: Mark Morin & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Black Powder Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Wars of Ozz 
Description: The Quadlings and the Munchkins are still at war with the 
Winkies and Gillikins.  This time, Zoraster the Wizard and Glenda the 
Witch face off against them - and like before - run into them on the field 
of battle.  Several opposing allied brigades will maneuver and find 
themselves facing off again on the plains of Ozz!  Beginners are very 
welcome.  Rules will be taught.  All miniatures/brigades will be provided 
for play.    Players under 13 only with a playing adult. Quadlings & 
Munchkins fight the Winkies & Gillikins. Zoraster the Wizard & Glenda 
the Witch lead on the battlefield!  Rules will be taught. Players under 13 
only w/ a playing adult. 
 
S14:476  FIREBALL FORWARD - Choctaw Warrior  
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Heritage: HR-57 
GM: Michael DeCarlo & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Fireball Forward 
Description: 80th D-Day Anniversary Commemoration game. On D-Day, 
any German counterattack against Utah Beach had to move through the 
town of Sainte-Mere-Eglise. To get there from the North, German units 
had to come through the town of Neuville-au- Plain but by mid-morning, 
only one American platoon was in position.  When a German column 
appeared, at first masquerading as American paratroopers waving 
orange recognition panels and leading German prisoners, the suspicious 
defending paratroopers fired a machine gun across the road. The large 
German column quickly dispersed and started an assault. 
 
S14:484  Woricks and Warlords: Battle for the Realm!  
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-56 
GM: Mark Fastoso & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Free rules given away 
Period: Fantasy-Medieval, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Woricks and Warlords 
Description: Two mighty Woricks (Kings) face off to fight for ultimate 
control of the realm!  Their warlords will do glorious battle, gather 
supplies and fight off Orc invaders!  This is a fun, fast-paced large 
skirmish mediaeval game! Free rules given away for playing at home. 
 Perfect or kids and adults! Come and join Charlie from Marks Game 
Room! 
 
S14:525  Last Hope for the Eagle  
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-62 
GM: Daniel Erdman & Pittsburgh Band of Gamers 
Sponsor: Combat Patrol, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1/72nd, Rules: Combat Patrol 
Description: Crete, 1941: The Fallschirmjager forces that have landed on 
Crete need to take the hill that overlooks Maleme Airfield, or the 
airborne invasion will become a total failure. The New Zealand infantry, 
supported by RAF personnel using scavenged firearms, face ammo 
shortages as they defend the hill and woods. Rules are Combat Patrol.  
Familiarity with the rules is not required. Players 10-15 are welcome 
with an adult. 
 
S14:586  Battle of Pala Passage — Theme Game 
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 13, Location: Federal Room: FD-1 
GM: Mike Harris & Naval Wargamer's Group 
Sponsor: Admiralty Trilogy Group, Prize: Gift Certificate 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:2400th, Rules: Command at Sea 
Description: All guns fire at the turn! were the words of Admiral 
Rockwell Torrey as he led his composite American force into battle 
against a Japanese force led by the battleship Yamato.  The battle of 
Pala Passage in the movie In Harms Way (1965) is an epic David versus 
Goliath struggle and has been a player favorite at HMGS conventions.  
Join the Admiralty Trilogy as we bring this Hollywood classic to the 
gaming table once more.  
 
S14:596  Let No One Prefer Hunger to the Sword  
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-25 
GM: Mark Huml & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Strength and Honour 
Description: October, 42 BCE: Brutus and Cassius, the assassins of 
Caesar, have consolidated their position in the East and are marching on 
Italy to restore the Republic. Antony and Octavian, successors to Caesar, 
have moved their forces to meet the Liberators at Philippi in Macedonia. 
36 legions have been concentrated beside 30,000 horsemen and 
numerous auxiliaries; the auspices have been read, and the lustrations 
performed. From one camp the watchword is: Liberty! From the other: 
Avenge Caesar! The fate of Rome hangs in the balance.  
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  60 | 69 
 
S14:600  With Nothing Bigger Than a Bren Gun -  The Defense of the 
Van Limburg Stirum School at the Arnhem Road bridge, September 
18th/19th 1944  
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-28 
GM: Edward Harding & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Chain of Command 
Description: From author Naill Cherry- Perhaps one of the best 
examples of fighting against the odds amongst all those that happened 
at Arnhem in September 1944 is the defense of the school at the bridge 
by elements of the 1st Parachute Squadron Royal Engineers and C 
Company of the 3rd Parachute battalion.  Refight some of that action in 
a Big Chain of Command game, as the British Paras can you hold on to 
the Northeast defense perimeter or as elements of Kampfgrupenn 
Knaust or Kampfgruppen Brinkman can you force the British away from 
the bridge and open the road south.  
 
S14:673  Breaking Storm, U.S. v. Japan at sea, 1937  
Saturday, 2:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-23 
GM: Bill Cira & ODGW 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Inter-War, Scale: 1/3000th, Rules: General Quarters 3 
Description: War with Japan has commenced much earlier than 
expected. The U.S has evacuated its civilians and a Marine Regiment 
through Shanghai. They are at sea aboard two hired ocean liners. The 
Japanese have a strong force at sea trying to intercept them before they 
reach the Philippines. U.S. naval forces have been rushed to the Western 
Pacific to support the evacuation. A major engagement in broad daylight 
seems likely. There is less to fear from carrier airpower, and it is an 
environment that predates the arrival of the Japan's Long Lance 
torpedo. Rules taught, beginners welcome 
 
S15:205  Shanghai Incident 1932  
Saturday, 3:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Hickory B: HK-4 
GM: Ching Chin  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Inter-War, Scale: Operational, Rules: Hexblitz variant 
Description: The 1932 Shanghai Incident was a pivotal battle between 
the newly re-united Nationalist China struggling for recognition and the 
established Imperial Japan itching for expansion. The battle is a 
forgotten turning point in the origins of World War II, pitting Japan's 
well-equipped Army and Navy against China's stubborn provincial forces 
and crack Central Government troops.  Command coordination is a 
crucial element reflecting the politics of that time.   This is a companion 
to the HMGS War College talk on the same battle and its impact on 
World War II.  
 
S15:341  The Battle of Great Notch- Co-Host of the 20 Sided Gamified 
Podcast  
Saturday, 3:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-4 
GM: Kelly McManus  
Sponsor: 20Sided Gamified LLC, Prize: yes 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Live Free 
or Die by Little Wars TV with house rules 
Description: October, 1780: British Major John Andre is dead and 
American turncoat Benedict Arnold's plot to hand over West Point is in 
shambles. Reeling from this treachery, General George Washington 
maneuvers his army back to his summer encampment at the Dey 
Mansion in what is now Wayne, New Jersey. Here he is shielded by the 
northern end of the Watchung Mountains and the mighty Passaic River. 
This serves as a means for the Commander in Chief to assess his position 
and weigh the options of a British reprisal. He fears that the British will 
do one of three things: Strike out towards Morristown, attack West 
Point, or strike him directly at his headquarters. 
 
S15:178  Action of 5 November 1813  
Saturday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 7, Location: Commonwealth: CW-15& 
CW-25 
GM: Richard Greenaway  
Sponsor: Waterloo Games, Prize: Waterloo Games Gift Certificate 
Period: Age of Sail, Scale: 1:1200th, Rules: Far Distant Ships 
Description: ight days of strong gale force winds had driven the 
blockading British from their stations off Toulon. On the 5th of 
November, 1813 taking advantage of the absence of blockading forces 
and favorable winds elements of the French fleet had left the harbor of 
Toulon for exercises. When the wind direction suddenly changed the 
returning British saw their chance to cut off the French rear. Fast easy to 
learn rules that emphasize Fighting Sail era tactics and command and 
control. A sudden shift of wind direction has put elements of the French 
fleet holding exercises in danger of being cut off from their home port of 
Toulon by the returning British blockade. 
 
S15:422  Battle of New Earth  
Saturday, 3:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-85 
GM: Kevin Fischer & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Victorian Science Fiction, Scale: 28mm, Rules: G.A.S.L.I.G.H.T. 
Description: The combined New Jamestown Venusian Volunteers Militia 
and the Neue Prussian Fraulein Schutztruppen forces have gathered at a 
redoubt to fight off the bone eaters, a lizard men tribe who have been a 
constant threat to the colonies survival who now approach with a 
massive force. Can these brave women win against overwhelming odds 
or will the colonies be destroyed?  
 
S15:442  Plastic Pirates are not Alone!  
Saturday, 3:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 9, Location: Commonwealth: CW-83 
GM: Geoffrey Graff & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Age of Piracy, Scale: LEGOs, Rules: Plastic Pirates 
Description: The Little Lego Looters are trying to sneak through the 
jungle to surprise the town.  But who will be surprised?    A game for the 
young, but reading would be helpful.  
 
S15:452  The Russo Japanese War: A LWTV Campaign Game 6 — 
Theme Game 
Saturday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-37 
GM: Miles Reidy & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Russo-Japanese War, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Altar of Empires 
Description: Often described as World War Zero, the Russo Japanese 
War was a titanic struggle between a declining European power and an 
emerging Asian one which featured a terrifying glimpse of what WW1 
had instore.  Players will be resolve battles that occur over the course of 
a campaign being played out over the convention. The outcome of the 
table top fighting directly influences the progress of the campaign.  
 
S15:498  Amphibious assault on the Senkaku islands, 2024.  
Saturday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-11 & HR-21 
GM: Martyn Kelly & WAMP 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  61 | 69 
 
Period: Modern, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Force on Force 
Description: The Chinese have landed a force on the contested Senkaku 
islands and are constructing a small military outpost.  The Japanese have 
responded by sending an amphibious force to take the islands.   There 
will be infantry, Su33MKK and V.22 Osprey aircraft, CH.47 Chinooks and 
AH64 Apache, LCAC hovercraft, amphibious vehicles, RIBs, mobile 
missile launchers, special operations teams, and naval gunfire support. 
Come and fight over imposing terrain with mountains, jungle and 
coastline. No food or drink at the table. 
 
S15:508  Arnhem Bridge: The Battles for the Bridge. Kampfgroups 
Brinkmann & Knaust - 20. Sept. 1944 — Theme Game 
Saturday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Heritage: HR-12 & HR 13 
GM: Tom Uhl & DelVal 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Bolt Action 2 
Description: Elements of British 2nd Parachute Battalion led by Lt. Col. 
Frost, desperately cling to their hold on the structures surrounding the 
approach to Arnhem Bridge. A series of hastily assembled German SS 
Kampfgroups probe these defenses in hopes of denying further 
reinforcement of the tenuous allied perimeter just north of the bridge. 
Kids under 13 accompanied by Adult. 
 
S15:521  Hail Of Fire - Stalingrad  
Saturday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-52 
GM: Brandon Fraley & Yellow Worm Gaming Society 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Raffle prizes 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Hail of Fire 
Description: Battle over 12 feet of city reduced to rubble! Teams of 
Soviet and German commanders deploy their forces to attempt to 
capture and hold key objectives throughout the bombed-out remains of 
Stalingrad. Players must balance offensive and defensive tactics to 
achieve their objectives, while their troops try to survive the chaos of 
artillery and airstrikes in the ruins of the once great city! 8 Players, 13+, 
participants eligible for raffle prizes!  
 
S15:562  Into The Darkness: ADEPTUS IMPERIALIS: Battle of Gamma 
Decima  
Saturday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-8 
GM: James Nicholson & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and 
Gaming Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Epic, SPACE MARINE, Adeptus 
Imperialis and House rules. 
Description: Horus Lupercal, Warmaster of the Emperor's armies, has 
turned upon his gene-father and sent the Imperium spiralling into 
bloody civil war. Half of the great Space Marine Legions have sided with 
the traitorous Warmaster, and countless cohorts of the Solar Auxilia, 
Knight Households, and Titan Legions march at his side. Now brother 
fights brother as the Imperium's vast armies tear one another apart in a 
cataclysm of fire and blood. An age of darkness descends, the likes of 
which have never been witnessed before. Come join us in this custom 
game rules will be taught.  
 
S15:591  Six Minutes That Changed History — Theme Game 
Saturday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-15 
GM: Michael Ovsenik & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:200th, Rules: Bag The Hun! 
Description: Fly as either American F4F-4 Wildcat fighter pilots escorting 
an American bomber flight going for broke to down Japanese carriers at 
Midway, or Japanese Zero pilots dedicated to saving their own fleet.  
 
S15:603  The Battle of El Guettar — Theme Game 
Saturday, 3:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-27 
GM: Eric Turner & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:48th, Rules: What A Tanker 
Description: We take that great North Africa tank battle scene from the 
movie "Patton" and give it the Too Fat Lardies treatment at Historicon. A 
game, based on a movie, based on a real battle. Ability to read Rommel's 
book that hadn't been published yet not required. 
 
S15:661  Into The Darkness: WARHAMMER 40K: Battles  
Saturday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-7 
GM: James Harvey & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and Gaming 
Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: WARHAMMER 40K and House rules. 
Description: A new edition makes planet fall. Ravening aliens strike at a 
desperate Imperium in the new edition of Warhammer 40,000. Discover 
one of the world's most popular miniatures games. Come join us in  
learning this new edition of Warhammer 40,000. All are welcome and all 
materials will be provided.  
 
S15:672  Mein Twinkie  
Saturday, 3:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-31 
GM: Tu Tran & ODGW 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Mein Zombie 
Description: The situation is dire!  It's catastrophic!  Someone has eaten 
the last Twinkie!!!  Images of the golden sponge cake with its cream 
filling are swirling in your mind.  Is it worth it to venture out and fight 
through the zombie hordes just for those spongy, yellow tastes of 
heaven?  Absolutely!!  It's time to gear up for a Twinkie supply run.  
Come join us for some lighthearted, cooperative fun as we venture out 
to search for these delicious treats. Rules Taught 
Beginners Welcome 
Children under 12 with an adult only. 
 
S16:149  Hell In A Very Small Place: The Battle of Dien Bien Phu-- The 
Night — Theme Game 
Saturday, 4:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FA-3 
GM: Greg McNa  
Sponsor: Age of Glory, Prize: Hand painted Age of Glory miniature for all 
participants 
Period: Post-WW2, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Modified Flames of War V3 
Description: May, 1954. Night has fallen. The epic siege in the valley of 
Dien Bien Phu is nearing an end. Legionnaires, Colonial Paras, 
Vietnamese and troops from around the French Union are desperately 
hoping for a miracle after 51 days of hell. This session will use night 
rules. The morning daytime scenario will determine what this session is. 
Is it a continued Viet Minh assault as the French held? A desperate 
French counterattack to retake the most important strongpoint in the 
entire valley- Eliane 2? Join in and find out. (No, the Americans are not 
coming with nukes) Easy rules based on modified Flames of War V3. 
New to gaming? C'mon on by. Kids welcome. Under 12 with adult 
supervision, please. No rules lawyers. 
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  62 | 69 
 
S16:366  SKYNET IS FALLING — Theme Game 
Saturday, 4:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-1 
GM: Kyle Schulze  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Xenos Rampant 
Description: The year is 2049, the machines have risen up against 
mankind lead by the AI known as Skynet. After the nuclear apocalypse of 
what was called Judgement Day, one man arrived and taught the human 
race how to fight back against the machines, that man is John Connor. 
Recently the Resistance has shot down a Hunter-Killer drone, and sent a 
team to recover vital information from its data core. There have been no 
communications from the recon team since, and command fears the 
worst. A rescue mission for the Resistance is led by John Connor himself, 
while Skynet sends its Terminators to recover the drone who will get 
there first?  
 
S16:220  Freeman's Farm - September 19  
Saturday, 4:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Freedom A: FA-7 
GM: David Paul Miller  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 54mm, Rules: 
Commands and Colors - Tricorne 
Description: The year is 1777, the Northern Campaign rages on at 
Freeman's Farm. We'll play this using the Epic format.  
 
S16:399  Antietam - Burnside's Bridge, 17 September 1862  
Saturday, 4:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 9, Location: Commonwealth: CW-52 
GM: John Wilk  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 28mm, Rules: By Company Into Line 
(Unpublished) 
Description: Maj. Gen. Ambrose Burnside's IX Corps was to demonstrate 
against the Confederate right as the Union main attack took place 
elsewhere. However, McClellan ordered Burnside to move forward later 
in the morning. Burnside first attempted to flank the Confederates with 
a movement south but they could not locate a suitable creek crossing. 
At the same time, two attempts to capture the bridge took place. The 
final assault began at around 1 pm. Please ensure that this game is 
scheduled on the same table as the same scenario to be submitted by 
John McConnell on Saturday at 10 Am. 
 
S16:461  Viking Raid on Iona Abbey, 825 CE  
Saturday, 4:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-47 
GM: Erik Johnson & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Dark Ages, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Ravenfest 
Description: Ships on the horizon- to the walls! The peaceful Scots-Irish 
abbey of St. Columba is under attack; the monks must protect their 
divine treasures and make the pagans pay for this! The Vikings are doing 
what they do best- raiding and pillaging the British Isles! Players will 
control the Viking raiders or Scots-Irish defenders in this skirmish-level 
game. The Viking players will seek to extract as much livestock and loot 
as possible, and the Monks will seek to preserve their abbey and escape 
with their treasures. Can you survive Dark Age Britain? Uses Ravenfeast 
by Little Wars: fast-play rules are taught and all are welcome. Dice, 
miniatures, and all materials provided. 
 
 
 
 
S16:463  Chaos Raid along the River Talabec  
Saturday, 4:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-36 
GM: Turhan Buckley & Little Wars TV 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 10mm, Rules: Warmaster Revolution 
Description: A Chaos raiding party brandishing the Mark of Nurgle has 
been spotted along the River Talabec in the northeast region of the 
Empire - its sole intent to pillage and enslave the villages far from 
imperial protection. Can the local garrison fight off the brutal onslaught 
long enough for their relief force to arrive and reclaim their lands? 
Newbies welcome, come learn the amazing fan-refurbished ruleset of 
Warmaster! 
 
S16:501  Wars of Oz - Operation Compass, 1941  
Saturday, 4:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-22 
GM: Louis Valenti & WAMP 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: World At War 
Description: Operation Compass was the first large British military 
operation of the Western Desert Campaign during the Second World 
War. British, Empire and Commonwealth (Australian {Oz}) forces 
attacked Italian forces of the 10th Army in Western Egypt and Cyrenaica, 
the eastern province of Libya, from December 1940 to February 1941. 
Hold on to your kangaroos 'cause we're bringing fast & fun back to WW2 
gaming!  This is a divisional level, fast play game. Beginner friendly & 
rules taught.  No kids under 14 w/o parent. No food.  Walk-ups 
welcome! 
 
S16:618  Can You Stand? - Talavera 1809, Battle of the Redoubt — 
Theme Game 
Saturday, 4:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-17 
GM: Jack Foster & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: General d' Armee 2 
Description: A beginner friendly introduction to Napoleonics and the 
ruleset General d' Armee 2. Units are based at a grand 1:1 scale with 
figures and terrain in 2mm.  Leval's German Division march to break the 
British line at the redoubt of Pajar de Vergara on the afternoon of July 
28. If Leval does not shatter the line with elan, all hope for the French at 
Talavera is lost. The "roast beefs" of Campbell's division and shaky 
Spanish must stand. Perhaps, an enterprising troupe of rifleman will 
seize a French Eagle from the hands of a dying German of the Baden 
regiment... 
 
S17:534  BRAZEN CHARIOTS  We have been here for 9 days! — Theme 
Game 
Saturday, 5:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-54 
GM: Adam Wine & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Certificates 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: BRAZEN CHARIOTS Tank 
Battle Game 
Description: Based on the 1953 war movie The Desert Rats. It is Nov. 
1941 and Rommel has been besieging Tobruk for 242 days. The British 
Operation Crusader is underway; its goal to destroy Rommel  s armour 
and lift the siege of Tobruk. Lt. Col. MacRoberts and his brigade of 9th 
Australian Infantry were ordered to hold Ed Duda for two days.  They 
have held for nine; the brigade is down to company strength. Will the 
relief ever arrive?  
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  63 | 69 
 
S17:627  Fire & Fury does World War I AGAIN, August 1914  
Saturday, 5:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-63 
GM: Wilbur Gray & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Order of the Pink Pansy 
Period: World War I, Scale: 12mm, Rules: Age of Valor Before the Leaves 
Fall 
Description: The Belgians have held in Northern Flanders, so the 
Germans shift their main attack South. More Belgians and an entire 
French cavalry corps await them, ready to rumble. The Hun have 
machine guns, but the French have ELAN! Its Napoleonic Fire & Fury for 
the Great War, and you can check out images from our previous game at 
https://tinyurl.com/AOV-Great-War-1914 . Rules taught, beginners 
welcome, experience with Age of Eagles II or Fire & Fury helpful, but not 
required. 
 
S17:653  Battletech - Battle of Gienah - 3152  
Saturday, 5:00 PM, 5 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-9 
GM: Mark Yingling & Battletech 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 6mm, Rules: Battletech - Total Warfare 
Description: The ilKhan's betrayal of the Wolf's Dragoon's in the battle 
of Terra has turned them into bitter enemies. The Dragoon's started to 
raid into the Wolf Empire and in 3152 they came to Gienah, the capital 
of the Wolf Empire. Here comes Zeta Battalion....... All materials, 
miniatures and dice will be provided. Intermediate to experienced 
players and no Players under 15 years old. 
 
S14:161  War Rig Death Ride — Theme Game 
Saturday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Hickory B: HK-5 
GM: Robert Evans  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Post-Apocalypse, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Gaslands 
Description: The Citadel has a delivery, and their War Rig is the vehicle 
to deliver it.  But Lord Humungus and his wasteland Marauders want 
what's inside.  Can you lead the War Rig to safety and become an 
Imperator, or will you be epic and bring the War Rig to a bloody heap of 
destruction.  Witness me!  
 
S18:159  Rapp 'n Raupenhelms, 1809  
Saturday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Hickory A: HK-3 
GM: Peter Anderson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Battle Command by Brent 
Oman 
Description: This fictional engagement imagines that, in the aftermath 
of the Battle of Eckmuhl, the Emperor creates an ad hoc Corps 
composed of troops from Bavaria, Wurttemberg, Baden, and Hessen-
Darmstadt, and places his German speaking ADC, General Jean Rapp, in 
command, with orders to defeat Austrian General Hiller. Youth age 12 
and up welcome with a playing adult, 15+ fine on their own 
 
S18:277  Roman Circus III  
Saturday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 16, Location: Freedon Foyer: FP-2 
GM: Mike Konwinski  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Roman Circus III 
Description: Step into the arena and mount your chariot to compete in 
the spectacle that is Roman Circus III. Speed, agility, master of the whip 
or all out ramming are the tools of your trade!  Roman chariot racing at 
its finest! 5 Guys and a Lawyer who brought you the ridiculously large 
Gangster game and 55 Days at Peking 
 
S18:109  Empire's Fall: Blood and Diesel Clash in Wulfsburg  
Saturday, 6:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-2 
GM: Christopher Masucci  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: GUARDS second edition 
(Blood and Diesel Armies) 
Description: A daring US strike force is tasked with taking the remote 
village of Wulfsburg. Intelligence has spotted multiple weapons cashes 
and heavy German resistance in the area. Command either the US OSS 
or German defenders and control a variety of historical and fantastical 
units. All participants will receive a free model.  
 
S18:371  Masters of the Air - Part 2 — Theme Game 
Saturday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-13 
GM: Martin Fenelon  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Fight for the Skies: 
Luftwaffe 1946 
Description: The Bloody One-Hundreth is penetrating deep into 
Germany. The Luftwaffe is responding with its latest weapons, including 
jets. Will the Me-262s be able to penetrate the American fighter screen 
and to the bombers? Fast-play WW II air-to-air combat with the 
Luftwaffe 1946 rules. No experience needed, rules will be taught. 
 
S18:388  StarForce Commander  
Saturday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-3 
GM: Chandler Archibald  
Sponsor: Mariner Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: Other, Rules: StarForce Commander 
Description: StarForce Commander is a thrilling game of tactical starship 
combat where every decision counts. Easy to learn, but with tactical 
depth. We'll have you in full command in 15 minutes. From arming 
weapons to maneuvering and sensor and shield management.  Join us at 
our table for a quick demo or participate in a full battle. Come say hi 
even if the timeslot is full and we'll fit you in or set up an alternate time 
to play. Don't miss out on the chance to learn StarForce Commander 
from its designers. Ages 12+. For more info: www.mariner.games 
 
S18:181  RUHR FOREST TANK BATTLE  
Saturday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth: CW-33 
GM: Robert Varga  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Beer and Pretzel Home rules 
Description: Battle of the Bulge has been decided the Germans have 
retreated into Germany with Gen. Patton advancing rapidly after them 
needing to capture the bridge. The approach to that bridge via the road 
has been temporarily halted by the Germans. Patton can't wait on air 
support that's grounded by weather conditions he needs that crossing. 
Patton assigns his tanks the task via the Ruhr Forest bypassing the road 
and advancing into map section 1 where the bridge is located, protected 
by an Anti-Tank Gun, and hidden Armor ready to ambush anything they 
encounter. The area has small hills, heavily wooded, that aid or hinders 
both sides. Easy fun game 
 
 
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  64 | 69 
 
S18:265  Assault on the Pratzen Heights  
Saturday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-23 
GM: Larry Yakowneko  
Sponsor: FrattSpiel Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 10mm, Rules: FrattNap - Hexed 
Description: FrattSpiel Games presents a hex version of The Victory Is 
Ours! [very similar to Small Deadly Space] 4" hexes = 200yds, beautiful 
WoFun acrylic flats by Peter Dennis. These rules will be published in the 
fall by On Military Matters. Staff officers aid maneuvers, rally, and push 
failed morale for Close Actions. Very few charts, very intuitive. Check out 
Battle of Austerlitz for fuller description. Hex version of The Victory Is 
Ours! 4" hexes = 200yds, beautiful WoFun acrylic flats by Peter Dennis. 
Staff Officers, Cohesion, 6,8,10,12,20 sided dice drive combat. 
 
S18:428  Learn to Play Wars of Ozz  
Saturday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 5, Location: Commonwealth: CW-71 
GM: Buck Surdu & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Wars of Ozz 
Description: Learn to play Wars of Ozz with some of the newest factions.  
Wars of Ozz provides an old-school feel with modern mechanics. The 
unique activation mechanism provides friction while allowing players to 
influence the battle. The reaction test mechanic provides the right level 
of unpredictability. Rules will be taught.  Younger players welcome with 
a participating adult.  No booze, please. 
 
S18:446  Defending the Point - September 1944  
Saturday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-73 
GM: Don Hogge & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Battleground WW2 
Description: It is 15 September 1944, D-Day on the island of Peleliu.  The 
remnants of Captain Hunt's K Company have taken The Point after 
several hours of bitter fighting.  Cut off from the rest of their battalion, 
running out of men and ammunition, they must hold until relieved.  The 
Japanese want it back.  Can they hold out against the relentless 
Japanese attacks long enough for the rest of 3rd Battalion, 1st Marines 
to come to their rescue; or will the Japanese retake this vital piece of 
terrain? Gamers under the age of 14 are welcome with an adult. 
 
S18:540  JOE HACK Britian 43 AD African Finale  
Saturday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage: HR-55 
GM: Joe Swartz & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: JOE HACK 
Description: As the Africans start to return towards the coast, the British 
are more than content to leave, but not without a parting gift of steel to 
say goodbye. British light cavalry race ahead and around the flanks of 
the Africans. As the British infantry catches up with the Africans, who 
turn to their line to face the British. However, scouts from the British 
cavalry see that all the Africans are facing the infantry, unaware of the 
impending doom behind them. rules taught & minors welcome with 
adult 
 
S18:545  FIGHTING STEAM!  -  Guadalcanal off Galveston  
Saturday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-43 
GM: Paul Meyer & NOWS 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: American Civil War, Scale: 1:1000th, Rules: FIGHTING STEAM  -  
(Augmented) 
Description: CSS Alabama vs USS Hatteras was a simple, brutal, mugging 
at sea.  But if both sides had had consorts, it might have developed into 
the kind of knife-fight-in-a-dark-closet brawl that the US Navy would 
come to know all too well 80 years later.  So... Let's bring on the 
consorts! Fighting Steam is a fast-play game for ACW naval actions 
inspired by SPI's Fighting Sail.   Rules taught.  Young players welcome 
with a playing adult 
 
S18:666  Battle of Sardis  
Saturday, 6:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-61 
GM: Frank Chadwick & Pittsburgh Band of Gamers 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Epic Conquest 
Description: In 332 BCE, Alexander's generals in Asia Minor broke the 
last resistance of the Persian army threating Alexander's 
communications with Greece and Macedonia.  Actual details of the 
battles are not recorded but we know they revolved around control of 
Sardis. We have used circumstantial evidence to recreate the armies and 
will be refighting the most important of those battles.  Come try out 
Franks Chadwick's new ancient rules. Epic Conquest.  
 
S14:163  Waterloo Maximus: Race for the Glory of Rome! — Theme 
Game 
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Comonwealth: CW-53 
GM: Ronald Bingham  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Circus Maximus 
Description: Race your 28mm chariot around the infamous Waterloo 
Maximus track. Just like Ben Hur; you can race and win all the Glories of 
of Rome! Come race in the infamous Waterloo Maximus for the Glory of 
Rome. A fun-fast paced 28mm chariot game based on the Avalon Hill 
"Circus Maximus"  board game. 
 
S19:698  Test of Honour - Shogun and the Last Samurai — Theme Game 
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 24, Location: Freedom Foyer: FP-1 
GM: David Hill  
Sponsor: Things from the Basement, Your Hobby Place Ltd. and the 
Metropolitan Wargamers., Prize: Vendor Discounts 
Period: Samurai, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Honour - Quick Play 
Description: For fans of the recent Shogun series and the less recent 
Last Samurai movie, this is the game for you. Test of Honour is a fun, 
fast-paced 28mm samurai skirmish game that I have further streamlined 
after dozens of convention games and hundreds of players. Don't be 
scared by the high player count, this is really six separate four-player 
scenarios played at the same time, with alternating activations (i.e. your 
turn is every other minute, not hour). With new scenarios, terrain and 
figures from the series and film, honor and glory await! Quick play rules 
(one piece of paper!) will be taught. Kids welcome with accompanying 
adult. All miniatures and materials provided, just bring a fun attitude. 
 
S19:212  Assault At Liewenberg: Hitting The Main Line! (German South 
West Africa, 1904)  
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-12 
GM: Roy Jones  
Sponsor: Recreational Conflict, Prize: NONE 
Period: Colonial, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Sword and the Flame (Modified) 
Description: German sailors took a beating in their first assault at 
Liewenberg. But now the sailors have more men, high morales and a 
Revolver cannon! Herero riflemen, however, still hold the high ground. 
And they fight concealed behind nearly impregnable rock. Somebody “ 
German or Herero“ is definitely going to get hurt at Liewenberg. From 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  65 | 69 
 
the scenario book The Herero War . More at: 
https://www.hererowars.com. This game is paired with the HMGS War 
College lecture: Sea Soldiers, Sailors, and Schutztruppen: German Troop 
Types and Tactics in the Herero War. 
 
S19:342  The Battle of Sitka, Alaska, Russian-American Company vs 
Tlingit Tribe  
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-4 
GM: Adam Sharp  
Sponsor: Thomas Hill Wargamers Club & 20Sided Gamified LLC, Prize: 
yes 
Period: 19th Century, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Blood & Steel, Firelock Games 
with House Rule Modifications 
Description: When Russian fur traders entered Alaska in the 1700's, the 
fate of a continent was in question.  Yet it wasn't Spain, France, Britain 
nor the fledgling United States who slowed Russian expansion, but the 
fierce and proud Tlingit tribes of coastal Alaska. The Battle of Sitka, 
1804, is a little known, perhaps never before gamed conflict between 
unique wooden-armored Native Americans and Russian-American 
Company (RAC) fur traders, sailors and native allies. Join us to lead the 
Tlingits, "more frightful than the most hellish devils"  as they were 
described by the Russians or take command of the RAC under Chief 
Manager Baronov. These two great powers fight to secure critical 
hunting grounds and the future of North America! 
 
S19:153  Green Hell -- Sci Fi Tactical Battle  
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Commonwealth: CW-63 
GM: Will Nesbitt  
Sponsor: Wargame World, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Ion Strike 
Description: The Freedom Coalition's Star Legion must secure the step-
pyramid at Zantheon from Verdan rebels and their Collectivist Alliance 
advisors. Dinosaurs, lizardmen and ion carbines! Exciting, simple sci-fi 
tactical game on a jungle planet 
 
S19:271  Battle of Austerlitz  
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-23 
GM: Steve Fratt  
Sponsor: FrattSpiel Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 6mm, Rules: FrattSpiel - The Victory Is Ours! 
Description: FrattSpiel Games presents its Napoleonic game similar to 
Small Deadly Space [ACW] 1" = 50yds, 1 figure = 25 men, These rules will 
be published in the fall by On Military Matters. Staff Officers serve many 
functions for maneuver, rallying, pushing attacks. Artillery forces units to 
test morale. Close Action dominates combat, driven by Cohesion ratings 
requiring very few charts. Plays more like a War College event - atypical - 
players will feel like they actually watch the battle unfold. For the player 
looking for something innovative. Steve Fratt presents The Victory Is 
Ours! a companion game to his Small Deadly Space ACW game from last 
year. Plays like a War College Event than typical con game. For players 
seeking new approach. 
 
S19:407  Operation Blackout — Theme Game 
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-86 
GM: Edward Watts & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Fistful of Lead - Core Rules 
Description: American troops attempt to overcome the fierce guards of 
a German radar and science installation before a big secret bombing 
raid. Rules taught at table. 
 
S19:416  Hell's Highway 1944  
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-83 
GM: David Wood & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:285 micro, Rules: Look Sarge, No Charts 
Description: WWII  Can a regiment of the 101st keep Highway 69 (later 
nicknamed "Hell's Highway") open, or will one or more of the German 
Kampfgruppes sever the supply line?  
 
S19:432  Doctor Who - Time Patrol — Theme Game 
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-82 
GM: Gregory Priebe & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Combat Patrol TM 
Description: Dr. Who and his companions arrive on Earth, only to 
discover that the planet has been invaded by by multiple alien forces. 
Can the earth's defenders fend off the menace and win the day? 
Children are welcome with a participating adult. 
 
S19:477  How the West Was Won — Theme Game 
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-57 
GM: Sean Barnett & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Western, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Ruthless 
Description: Chinese railroad workers have gone on strike after some 
accidents on the Abilene & Rio Grande.  But strike aint in their contract 
”why they aint even got contracts!"  So the railroad has hired a few good 
men to go into town and get those ingrates back to work.  If they scare 
some townspeople away in the process, that will be a bonus.  However, 
the workers have gone and found themselves some help too.  When the 
railroad men show up, lead is sure to fly!  
 
S19:485  Defense of Plancenoit  
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-56 
GM: Douglas Austin & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Napoleonic, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Rebels and Patriots (Modified) 
Description: Some of the most intense fighting found at the Battle of 
Waterloo involved the Prussian assault on the village of Plancenoit. Can 
the French Young Guard hold back the Prussian onslaught or will they be 
swept aside? As Napoleon moves from Hollywood to Historicon, come 
join Mark's Game Room and find out! 
 
S19:493  The Battle of Britain Campaign- 5 — Theme Game 
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-46 
GM: Carl cardozo & Marks Game room 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:600th, Rules: Fire in the Sky 
Description: The Battle of France is over - the Battle of Britain is about 
to begin. In this epic 5 part campaign, climb inside the cockpit for 
massive air battles in the skies above Britain to decide the fate of 
Operation Sealion. Play as The Few of RAF Fighter Commands 11 Group, 
or the elite pilots of the Luftwaffe. The aircraft lost and targets bombed 
carry over from session to session, culminating in the finale, the 
September 15 attack on London!  
 Uses the new WW2 air combat rules Fire in the Sky! 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  66 | 69 
 
 
S19:503  Casablanca meets the Mummy — Theme Game 
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-14 
GM: John Mitchell & TGS Productions 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Early 20th Century, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Fistful of Lead, Tales of 
Horror 
Description: Eva and Rick, after unwittingly awakening the Mummy 
Imhotep, have fled Egypt to Morocco.  But Imhotep has followed them.  
Now with the help of Rick Blaine, they have to get to the train station 
across town. Vichy police Captain Louie, has letters of transit for them to 
take a train from Casablanca to Lisbon Portugal. With the help of some 
friends, they set out.  Will the Mummy and his minions capture Eva? Will 
they make it to the train in time? Will any of them realize that you can't 
take a train from Casablanca to Lisbon Find out, in what I call a  Mixed 
up Movie Madness game 
 
S19:578  Big Truffle in a Little Village  
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth Foyer: 
CF-2 
GM: Eric Jacobson & HMGS Next Gen 
Sponsor: Brigade Games, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Gnome Wars 
Description: In the early days of the Wishing Well War, the only thing 
between the German Gnome war machine and the subjugation of all 
Gnome-Kind were small town militias... and a few friends. Any player 
bringing a painted 320 point unit from Brigade Games Gnomes at War 
line do not need to pre-register. No one under 12 without a playing 
adult.  
 
S19:604  The Battle of El Guettar — Theme Game 
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Heritage: HR-27 
GM: Eric Turner & LARD America 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 1:48th, Rules: What A Tanker 
Description: We take that great North Africa tank battle scene from the 
movie "Patton" and give it the Too Fat Lardies treatment at Historicon. A 
game, based on a movie, based on a real battle. Ability to read Rommel's 
book that hadn't been published yet not required. 
 
S19:606  Towards the Duna River  
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Heritage: HR-24 
GM: Michael Byrne & LARD America 
Sponsor: Age of Glory, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Chain of Command 
Description: The Germans are driving towards Smolensk. They need to 
capture several river crossings to permit a rapid advance and resupply. 
Can the Germans hold the stream crossing from a Soviet counterattack?  
 
S19:630  Wolverines: Airfield Strike — Theme Game 
Saturday, 7:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Heritage: HR-72 
GM: Michael Pierce & Carnage and Glory 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Modern, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Wolverines: Red Dawn (home) 
Description: The Commie invasion continues.  Although you have heard 
rumors of fighting by the US military, the Commies are in control of your 
region.  In the town of Two Wells, Texas, the invaders have established a 
base, including a small air facility.  They have used the airfield to keep 
the region pacified.  Your group of Wolverines plan to assault the 
airfield, destroying infrastructure and aircraft.  In addition, gather any 
supplies you can find.  
 
S20:324  Trench Wars: The Forgotten Fronts: Attu 1943--An HMGS War 
College Game  
Saturday, 8:00 PM, 2 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Commonwealth: CW-21 
GM: Frank Luberti, Jr.  
Sponsor: Connecticut Game Club, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Trench Wars (modified) 
Description: May 1943.  Units of the U.S. 7th Infantry Division landed on 
Attu island.  Waiting for them: elements of the IJA's North Seas Garrison.  
25mm skirmish game.  Novices, children with adults, rules lawyers and 
GMs looking for revenge welcome. Kid friendly game.  Parent/Child 
teams welcome.  Rules will be taught.  Game sponsored by the HMGS 
War College. 
 
S20:691  The BITE of the SILVER BAYONET  
Saturday, 8:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FA-1 
GM: Peter Panzeri  
Sponsor: MINIATURE BUILDING AUTHORITY  (MBA), Prize: Prize for 
"Most-Feared-Enemy" & other prizes from our sponsors 
Period: Gothic Napoleonic Horror, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Silver Bayonet 
Description: Enter the "Gothic-Napoleonic" realm of Super-
Natural/Historical exploits.  An "Exploring Officer" is tasked to recruit a 
specialist unit plus regular Napoleonic forces to capture and hold a 
strategically important town. "Veteran-Hunters" of evil must fight 
alongside Napoleonic infantrymen, cavalrymen, Gunners, Sappers and 
Leaders. This is a dangerous mission to find and destroy supernatural 
foes (From vampires to ghouls-goblins-monsters or ghosts. -- But 
hopefully not "ALL AT ONCE!")  WHO will survive? WHO will die a ghastly 
death?  WHO can kill the undead? and HOW? And mostly, WHO will 
earn the Silver Bayonet as a badge of honor? *GAME MASTER CHRIS 
BEIL* Introducing an amazing NEW GAME GENRE!*  
*(Guaranteed 51% more "HISTORICAL" than Ridley Scott's NAPOLEON 
movie!)  
ONE-TIME-ONLY EVENT at HISTORICON'24  *DON'T MISS IT! 
 
S20:322  Roman Chariot Race — Theme Game 
Saturday, 8:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Commonwealth: CW-42 
GM: William Chappell  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Medal for Winner, Scepter for Best Roman 
Period: Roman Empire, Scale: 54mm, Rules: Roman Circus by Brian 
DeWitt 
Description: Thrills, chills, and spills in the 1st Century equivalent of 
NASCAR, with attitude.  Drive your chariot around a 12 foot track.  Are 
you Ben Hur (Good)? Or Messala (Bad)?  There are no laws in the 
Hippodrome!  See if you have what it takes to be first across the finish 
line in your chariot.  Only one person gets to wear the laurel wreath and 
walk away with the gold medal. The best "Roman"  gets the scepter!  
 
S20:523  What a Tanker! Berlin  
Saturday, 8:00 PM, 3 hrs, Players: 10, Location: Heritage: HR-52 
GM: Adam Pooler & Yellow Worm Gaming Society 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: World War II, Scale: 15mm, Rules: What a Tanker 
Description: The Battle of Berlin featured some of the biggest, baddest 
tanks involved in the war. If you ever wondered how they matched up, 
come join the fun! What a Tanker is fast to learn and easy to play. 
Players run individual tanks, fighting it out in a 12x5" ruined Berlin.  
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  67 | 69 
 
 
S20:563  Into The Darkness: ADEPTUS IMPERIALIS: Battle of Gamma 
Decima  
Saturday, 8:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-8 
GM: James Nicholson & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and 
Gaming Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 10mm, Rules: EPIC, SPACE MARINE, Adeptus 
Imperialis and House rules. 
Description: Horus Lupercal, Warmaster of the Emperor's armies, has 
turned upon his gene-father and sent the Imperium spiralling into 
bloody civil war. Half of the great Space Marine Legions have sided with 
the traitorous Warmaster, and countless cohorts of the Solar Auxilia, 
Knight Households, and Titan Legions march at his side. Now brother 
fights brother as the Imperium's vast armies tear one another apart in a 
cataclysm of fire and blood. An age of darkness descends, the likes of 
which have never been witnessed before. Come join us in this custom 
game rules will be taught.  
 
S20:662  Into The Darkness: WARHAMMER 40K: Battles  
Saturday, 8:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Heritage Foyer: HF-7 
GM: Buford Culver & LXG Gaming Club, THE MECHANICON and Gaming 
Garage 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: WARHAMMER 40K and House rules. 
Description: A new edition makes planet fall. Ravening aliens strike at a 
desperate Imperium in the new edition of Warhammer 40,000. Discover 
one of the world's most popular miniatures games. Come join us in  
learning this new edition of Warhammer 40,000. All are welcome and all 
materials will be provided.  
 
 
 
 
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  68 | 69 
 
Z09:155  Tewkesbury, 1471  
Sunday, 9:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-33 
GM: Peter Anderson  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Renaissance, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Test of Resolve - Wars of the 
Roses 
Description: Queen Margaret and the Lancastrian army stole a march on 
the Yorkists. King Edward IV and his men have caught up with them at 
Tewkesbury, and have sought battle to prevent them from crossing the 
river Severn into Wales. Youth age 10 and up welcome with a playing 
adult, 13+ fine on their own 
 
Z09:200  VSF: Riders of the Storming Hens! — Theme Game 
Sunday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-75 
GM: Gabriel Landowski  
Sponsor: MHWA, Prize: NONE 
Period: Victorian Science Fiction, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Damned Human 
Race 
Description: When debris from an ancient alien space fleet seeds the 
solar system in 1863, a lot of weird and wonderful things emerge! Take 
part as towering dinosaurs and thundering steam walkers struggle for 
ultimate control while the the colonial powers of Europe play out the 
same old game but with a new twist! MHWA: Kid friendly 
 
Z09:291  Strasbourg AD 357: The Battle for Gaul  
Sunday, 9:00:00 AM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-64 
GM: Andy Hewitt  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: To The Strongest by Simon Miller 
Description: Refight the battle of Strasbourg 357 AD in glorious 28mm 
with over a thousand miniatures using Simon Miller's "To The Strongest" 
ruleset. The fate of Rome hangs in the balance as Germanic hordes have 
crossed the Rhine and look to establish a permanent presence in the 
Empire. The young and untested Julian seeks to be worthy of the heroes 
of old and crush the German menace with his army of veteran legions. 
Meanwhile, the canny Chnodomar, high king of the Alamanni Tribe 
seeks to add to his wealth and power. The fate of Rome hangs in the 
balance, who will be victorious? The disciplined Romans or the wild 
Barbarians? Refight the battle of Strasbourg 357 AD in glorious 28mm 
with over a thousand miniatures using Simon Miller's "To The Strongest" 
ruleset. The fate of Rome hangs in the balance! 
 
Z09:288  Close Action! - Sunday's Fleet Battle  
Sunday, 9:00:00 AM, 7 hrs, Players: 21, Location: Commonwealth: MH-2 
GM: Mark Campbell  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: Honor and Glory!!! 
Period: Age of Sail, Scale: 1:1200th, Rules: Close Action! by Mark 
Campbell 
Description: In 1739 a great naval war of the Age of Fighting Sail began.  
The war saw the British navy rise from "first among equals" to be THE 
dominant naval power.  One of the most important battles in the war 
was the 2nd Battle of Cape Finisterre in 1747.  The battle was a disaster 
for France, but need not have been had the French Navy prepared 
better; this scenario assumes that it did so. The result is a balanced 
battle between 11 British & 10 French ships of the line, and this scenario 
is included in the new CA module "Jenkins' Ear and Austrian Succession".  
Join us for a fun and realistic age of sail naval battle! Beginners 
welcome, rules taught.   New players will be paired with an experienced 
player to help you learn the rules.  Kid Friendly Game. All materials 
provided,  please bring your own courage... 
 
Z09:423  Secure The Cargo  
Sunday, 9:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 4, Location: Commonwealth: CW-85 
GM: Kevin Fischer & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: SciFi, Scale: 28mm, Rules: Relic Knights 
Description: The Star Nebula Corsairs have control over the maglev 
terminal. Can the mercenaries of the Black Diamond Corps be successful 
in wrestling control of the terminal from the pirates or will the pirates 
maintain their hold? Anyone who wants to participate can bring their 
own cadre of 50 points. 
 
Z10:343  The Battle of Great Notch- Co-Host of the 20 Sided Gamified 
Podcast  
Sunday, 10:00:00 AM, 3 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
76 
GM: Kelly McManus  
Sponsor: 20Sided Gamified LLC, Prize: yes 
Period: American War for Independence, Scale: 15mm, Rules: Live Free 
or Die by Little Wars TV with house rules 
Description: October, 1780: British Major John Andre is dead and 
American turncoat Benedict Arnold's plot to hand over West Point is in 
shambles. Reeling from this treachery, General George Washington 
maneuvers his army back to his summer encampment at the Dey 
Mansion in what is now Wayne, New Jersey. Here he is shielded by the 
northern end of the Watchung Mountains and the mighty Passaic River. 
This serves as a means for the Commander in Chief to assess his position 
and weigh the options of a British reprisal. He fears that the British will 
do one of three things: Strike out towards Morristown, attack West 
Point, or strike him directly at his headquarters. 
 
Z10:408  Howard Whitehouse's Eat Hitler! — Theme Game 
Sunday, 10:00:00 AM, 2 hrs, Players: 12, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
84 
GM: Brendan Watts & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Pulp, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Eat Hitler! 
Description: Nazis plan to time travel into the past and win WWII goes 
awry when they crash into a Jurassic jungle where gamers play dinosaur 
predators eating them for points. Sunday morning fun before heading 
home for kids, families, dino aficionados and burnt out gamers. 
 
Z10:436  The Lair of the Ice Troll  
Sunday, 10:00:00 AM, 2 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-
86 
GM: Eric Schlegel & HAWKs 
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Fantasy, Scale: 25mm, Rules: Blood & Swash (Fantasy 
Modification) 
Description: Players take control of a band of adventurers and battle 
across difficult terrain to be the first to reach the Lair of the Ice Troll, 
loot the treasure within and make it out alive. Blood & Swash of an easy, 
fun system and a good way to wrap of a convention. Players under 13 
welcome with a playing adult. 
 
Z10:683  A&A D-DAY CAMPAIGN: "Last Chance" SCENARIO D — Theme 
Game 
Sunday, 10:00:00 AM, 2 hrs, Players: 6, Location: Freedom A: FA-1 
GM: Peter Panzeri  
HISTORICON® 2024 Preliminary Events List 
Event numbers start with a 3-digit game start day/hour designation (24hr time) (T09 = Thursday 9am) 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 P a g e  69 | 69 
 
Sponsor: MINIATURE BUILDING AUTHORITY  (MBA), Prize: FREE COPY of 
GAME RULES & SCENARIO made available to ALL Participants after 
completion of the game -- PLUS Trophy for "Most-Feared-Enemy" & 
other prizes from our sponsors. 
Period: World War II, Scale: 20mm, Rules: Modified Axis-&-Allies D-Day: 
CORPS-LEVEL game system (Expanded onto 8-foot Color photo-
Map/Blanket] 
Description: Your LAST CHANCE to change the fate of D-Day in a small 
game of the strategic battle using modified "Axis-&-Allies D-Day" game 
system with 20mm figures/tanks/planes, & played on a 6-foot Color 
Normandy Terrain-map (Blanket).  Maneuver brigades and divisions of 
Infantry, Armor, Artillery, naval & Air Support. Random events, music 
and mayhem. What's not to love? A war Game, A strategy game, a 
Survival game. **ALSO**  DON'T MISS the Historicon War College 
Presentation: "DISASTER at D-DAY" at 5pm Thursday in the 
"Montgomery House" Lecture Room. 
HOSTED BY DUKE SEIFRIED FOUNDATION. 
 
Z14:292  Strasbourg AD 357: The Battle for Gaul  
Sunday, 2:00:00 PM, 4 hrs, Players: 8, Location: Commonwealth: CW-64 
GM: Harry Voelkel  
Sponsor: NONE, Prize: NONE 
Period: Ancients, Scale: 28mm, Rules: To The Strongest by Simon Miller 
Description: Refight the battle of Strasbourg 357 AD in glorious 28mm 
with over a thousand miniatures using Simon Miller's "To The Strongest" 
ruleset. The fate of Rome hangs in the balance as Germanic hordes have 
crossed the Rhine and look to establish a permanent presence in the 
Empire. The young and untested Julian seeks to be worthy of the heroes 
of old and crush the German menace with his army of veteran legions. 
Meanwhile, the canny Chnodomar, high king of the Alamanni Tribe 
seeks to add to his wealth and power. The fate of Rome hangs in the 
balance, who will be victorious? The disciplined Romans or the wild 
Barbarians? Refight the battle of Strasbourg 357 AD in glorious 28mm 
with over a thousand miniatures using Simon Miller's "To The Strongest" 
ruleset. The fate of Rome hangs in the balance! 
 
 
 
